[TITLE]Puma Acquisition Speculation Heats Up Again: All the Potential Suitors So Far:
[TEXT]
There’s no shortage of possible bidders for Puma, but a sale — if there is to be one — might not come until further down the road.

That’s because the focus for the Puma brand might be centered more on its turnaround strategy, at least for now. First and foremost, the brand needs to focus on righting the ship first. Moreover, a successful turnaround would also garner a higher valuation — which would correlate to higher offers — if a sale were to occur.

Shares of Puma SE ticked up in September over speculation that its rival Adidas might be interested in acquiring the brand. Two days later, shares of Puma rose again over speculation that brand management firm Authentic Brands Group and private equity firm CVC would be throwing their hats into the ring.

Authentic Brands is one of those firms that becomes top of mind whenever a brand comes up for sale, mostly because the brand management firm gets all pitches from investment bankers in hopes that they could be drawn into a bidding process. In this case, Authentic Brands seems a natural fit because it has a footwear vertical that includes the Swedish footwear brand Tretorn that it acquired from Puma for an undisclosed sum in 2015. Authentic Brands also acquired Reebok from Adidas in 2022 for up to $2.5 billion. The footwear vertical also includes Airwalk, Tretorn, Frye, Sperry, Hunter, Rockport and Bandolino.

You May Also Like

Last week, Puma shares popped up again, this time on rumblings that China’s sportswear firm Anta Sports could be eyeing the German athletic brand. In addition to media outlets citing Anta, Li Ning and Asics were also mentioned as possible bidders. Both Li Ning and Asics reportedly denied that any talks or even evaluations of potential interest were taking place, while Anta and Puma didn’t respond to requests for comment.

The fact that the German brand is struggling makes it a ripe candidate for takeover speculation. And investment bankers sometimes will float out an idea to see if there’s any interest as they hunt for potential deals they can get done.

In August, Bloomberg said in a story that Puma’s 29 percent majority stake owner Artemis — the parent firm that controls Gucci-owner Kering — was entertaining the possibility of a sale of its stake in Puma. A few weeks later, Reuters reported that Artemis would not sell at current valuations. Artemis chairman is François-Henri Pinault, who is also chairman of French luxury firm Kering.

Artemis on Monday declined comment, while Puma did not respond to a request for comment.

Asked whether Artémis, the Pinault family’s holding company, would consider selling its stake in the German sporting goods brand to reduce its debt load, Pinault noted in September that it is “not a strategic asset” and Artémis was “keeping all its options open.”

Keeping options open makes the most sense once Adidas veteran Arthur Hoeld took over the reigns as Puma chairman and CEO on July 1.

“I think the Puma turnaround is in the early stages, but they seem focused on doing the right things,” said Matt Powell, an advisor at Spurwink River. “Turnarounds are always expensive and take a lot of time.”

Powell observed that one of Puma’s weaknesses is that it does not have a “clear brand identity” in the U.S.

When the company reported third quarter results on Oct. 30, Hoeld said during a conference call that the company recognizes its “shortcomings and the issues that Puma is having right now, and what is holding Puma back to succeed.”

“We’re overexposed,” Hoeld told investors. He ticked off a list of all the things Puma needs to correct, indicating that the brand has a lot of work to do.

One big problem he noted was the lack of brand heat as the label lags behind competitors and therefore not commanding the same attention of brand love that is required to succeed in the market.

A second problem Hoeld cited was the channel mix between direct-to-consumer (DTC) and wholesale is “not on par with competition.” Most competitors are 60 percent wholesale with customers and 40 percent DTC, whereas Puma’s share is only 30 percent in DTC. That limits the brand’s “opportunity to showcase our product, to excite consumers directly with our storytelling, and also determine how we’re going to show up in the marketplace,” he said. In addition, out of Puma’s top 10 global customers, three are in the mass merchant category, which Hoeld said are “usually where off-price business, or off-season business, is sold in a very wide distribution and in a not very brand-enhancing manner.”

Puma also has a problem with too much inventory. “We have way too many products and we’re supplying way too many articles each and every season into the trade,” he said, adding that the brand’s key iconic products aren’t standing out. Once that’s fixed where key products tells consumers what Puma stands for could represent a “huge opportunity for us,” he told investors.

He also identified another huge problem, and that is that storytelling isn’t as integrated as it should be because the firm is organized in silos, resulting in fragmentation between the product, marketing and sales teams. “As a result of that, we do have to realize and to recognize that Puma as a brand has become too commercial over the years, too commercial from a distribution perspective, too commercial from a pricing and also from a promotion perspective,” Hoeld said.

Among the initial moves was to clean up its wholesale business and its overstock. “That is something which we’ll continue to do in the next couple of quarters,” he said, adding that the brand has also “reduced discounts in our very own channels. So, whether it’s e-commerce or retail, we have started to show up as a more healthy brand again that commands price points, which consumers are absolutely willing to pay for our products.”

Acknowledging that Puma’s brand position is no longer in the top three, given its softening sales and increased competition, Hoeld said the goal is to become a top three sports brand again by returning to above industry growth by Fiscal Year 2027, with 2026 a transition year for the brand.

In addition to reducing its product range, the company also said it was reducing its workforce by 1,400 positions starting this year and through 2026. The brand also made some leadership changes, naming Andreas Hubert as its chief operating officer, and expanding chief product officer Maria Valdes’ role to include brand and marketing and go-to market as she takes on the role of chief brand officer.

Forging ahead, Puma on Monday opened its largest-ever European flagship store on Oxford Street in London. The High Street is one of Europe’s busiest shopping destinations. The location, located seconds from Selfridges and Bond Street Tube Station, spans 24,000 square-feet. The store features Puma’s industry-leading innovations that include running technology Nitro and football boots Future, Ultra and King, as well as the brand’s current range of lifestyle products.

Hoeld said that store is Puma’s first flagship door in Europe, “which gives us the chance to connect with more people than ever before.”

The store features multiple customization areas for consumers to create unique products and immerse themselves in a digital running video-wall that reacts to every touch. Marking the opening, Puma is offering a special London exclusive collection that reimagines British icons such as the Union Flag and Harris Tweed.

The brand in October also opened a new Los Angeles office that serves as its new creative and innovation hub to complement the brand’s existing global and regional product teams located in Somerville, Mass.

Can a turnaround be achieved?

TD Cowen analyst John Kernan has a “Hold” rating on shares of Puma. With a focus on distribution and stock-keeping unit cleanup, performance led product categories and organizational streamlining, Kernan said global peers Adidas and Nike are working on similar playbooks with Puma in catch-up mode. He is cautious on turnarounds, including that of Under Armour given the increased competition in the sector. And he said the Puma cash burn and operating losses potentially could require a capital raise — the analyst estimated 500 million euros in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2026 — as well as a significant reduction in working capital due to lower inventory and higher payables.

Kernan didn’t rule out a turnaround, but said while Hoeld spoke about “all the sensible qualitative touchpoints,” his discussion was “short (for now) on providing any firm targets other than aiming for a return to growth beginning in Fiscal Year 2027.”

With contributions from Joelle Diderich
[Source link]: http://wwd.com/footwear-news/shoe-industry-news/puma-suitors-challenge-turnaround-inititiatives-artemis-1238365540/


[TITLE]Alpine Income Property Trust Announces Year-To-Date 2025 Transaction Activity & Preferred Equity Offering:
[TEXT]
WINTER PARK, Fla., Dec. 01, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Alpine Income Property Trust, Inc. (NYSE: PINE) (the “Company”), an owner and operator of single tenant net leased commercial income properties, today announced its investment and disposition activities for the fourth quarter through December 1, 2025 and year-to-date 2025, and its capital markets activity in the fourth quarter.

Transaction Activity

During the fourth quarter 2025 through December 1, 2025, the Company has completed the following transactions:

Acquisitions: Acquired eight properties, all of which were previously announced, for an aggregate purchase price of $39.8 million representing a weighted average going-in cash cap rate of 6.9% and a weighted average remaining lease term at the time of acquisition of 4.4 years. The acquisitions include: A 131,039 square foot property leased to Sam’s Club, a subsidiary of Walmart (AA credit rating), in Houston, Texas. A four-property portfolio: two properties leased to Hardee’s, one to Jiffy Lube and one to Burger King. A three-property portfolio in Richmond, Virginia: one property ground leased to a 116,425 square foot Walmart Supercenter (AA credit rating), a four-tenant, triple-net-leased building anchored by TJ Maxx (A credit rating) and an additional ground leased outparcel. Walmart is now the Company’s fourth largest tenant, joining a portfolio led by investment grade-rated tenants Lowe’s (BBB+ credit rating) and Dick’s Sporting Goods (BBB credit rating).

Structured Investments: Originated three new structured investments totaling $47.5 million in loan commitments at a weighted average initial cash yield of 16.1% (including accrued interest). The Company recently originated a $4.5 million first mortgage loan with an 11.0% initial cash yield, secured by a Costco-anchored mixed-use development project in Gwinnett County, Georgia. Two of the structured investments were previously announced – a first mortgage commitment to a luxury residential development, where the $29.5 million phase 1 commitment is now fully funded following the borrower’s draw of the remaining $15.4 million, and a $13.5 million commitment for a first mortgage investment secured by a mixed-use development in Lake Toxaway, North Carolina. Amended and upsized an existing investment, Cornerstone Exchange, which is secured by a retail land development in Daytona Beach, Florida, as previously announced. The amendment upsized the loan commitment by $21.3 million for a total commitment of $23.9 million with an initial yield of 10.0%, and the maturity has been extended to April 2027.

Dispositions: Sold a $10.0 million A-1 participation interest in its fully funded $29.5 million phase 1 loan commitment to the luxury residential development located in the Austin, Texas metropolitan area. As part of the transaction, the Company had the loan rated by an independent rating agency whereby the loan received a BBB- rating. The A-1 participation interest will be repaid on a priority basis with proceeds from any sale of collateral lots. After adjusting for the A-1 participation sale and recent funding of the remaining portion of the phase 1 commitment, the Company’s remaining investment in the phase 1 commitment is approximately $19.5 million at an initial yield of 20.9%, including 4.0% accrued interest. Between October 22, 2025 and November 26, 2025, the Company sold four net lease properties for an aggregate sale price of $23.2 million representing a weighted average exit cash cap rate of 7.5%. The properties are leased to Kohl’s, Circle K, Tractor Supply Company and Walgreens. Walgreens has now decreased to the Company’s fifth largest tenant based on annualized base rent, with seven properties leased to Walgreens remaining in the Company’s portfolio.

Year-to-date 2025, the Company’s total investment activity includes $244.2 million of acquisition and structured investment transactions at a weighted average initial cash yield of 10.1%. Year-to-date disposition activity includes $52.2 million of income-producing asset sales representing a weighted average exit cash cap rate of 8.0%. Additionally, the Company has sold $5.3 million of vacant properties year-to-date and one $10.0 million structured investment participation interest (as described above).

As of December 1, 2025, the Company’s property portfolio was 99.4% occupied, with a weighted average remaining lease term of 8.4 years, and with 50% of annualized base rent attributable to investment grade rated tenants.

Preferred Equity Offering

On November 5, 2025, the Company announced the pricing of a public offering of 2,000,000 shares of the Company’s 8.00% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at a public offering price of $25.00 per share. The security is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “PINE-PA”. On November 12, 2025, the Company closed the offering and received gross proceeds of $50,000,000 before deducting the underwriting discount and other offering expenses.
[Source link]: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/12/01/3197432/0/en/Alpine-Income-Property-Trust-Announces-Year-To-Date-2025-Transaction-Activity-Preferred-Equity-Offering.html


[TITLE]Dressing and Sauces Market Estimated to Reach US$ 205.9 Billion by 2033 | Astute Analytica:
[TEXT]
Chicago, Dec. 01, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The global dressing and sauces
[Source link]: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/12/01/3197130/0/en/Dressing-and-Sauces-Market-Estimated-to-Reach-US-205-9-Billion-by-2033-Astute-Analytica.html


[TITLE][Lates] Pet Preservation Services Market Set to Grow to US$ 115.3 Million by 2033 | Astute Analytica:
[TEXT]
Chicago, Dec. 01, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The global pet preservation services
[Source link]: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/12/01/3196998/0/en/Lates-Pet-Preservation-Services-Market-Set-to-Grow-to-US-115-3-Million-by-2033-Astute-Analytica.html


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: alpine income property trust
name: alpine income property trust
symbol: None
error: 422 Client Error: Unprocessable Entity for url: https://finnhub.io/api/v1/search?q=alpine+income+property+trust&token=d36pnjpr01qtvbtinv3gd36pnjpr01qtvbtinv40
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: astute analytica
name: astute analytica
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: puma
symbol: PUM.DE
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1764724888
name: puma
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

[TITLE]Protein Ingredients Market Size to Exceed USD 91.78 Billion by 2034 | Towards FnB:
[TEXT]
Ottawa, Dec. 01, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The global protein ingredients market size stood at USD 52.72 billion in 2024 and is predicted to increase from USD 55.73 billion in 2025 to reach around USD 91.78 billion by 2034, according to a report published by Towards FnB, a sister firm of Precedence Research.

The market is observed to grow due to higher demand for protein-rich food options. Such options help enhance muscle recovery, aid weight loss, and support people working out in the gym.

Note: This report is readily available for immediate delivery. We can review it with you in a meeting to ensure data reliability and quality for decision-making.

Access the Full Study Instantly | Download Sample Pages of the Report Now@ https://www.towardsfnb.com/download-sample/5929

Key Highlights of the Protein Ingredients Market

By region, North America led the protein ingredients market with highest share of 38% in 2024, whereas the Asia Pacific is expected to grow in the forecast period.

By product, the animal/dairy protein ingredients segment led the protein ingredients market in 2024, whereas the insect protein segment is expected to grow in the foreseeable period.

By application, the food and beverage segment dominated the protein ingredients market in 2024, whereas the animal feed segment is projected to grow in the foreseeable period.

Higher Demand for Protein Variants Is Helpful for the Protein Ingredients Sector Growth

The protein ingredients market is expected to grow due to rising demand for both animal and plant-based protein products. Such food options offer multiple benefits, including being essential for gym rats and muscle recovery, as well as being helpful for consumers on a weight-loss spree. Higher demand for functional food, vegan and vegetarian options, and nutraceuticals is also a major driver of the growth of the protein ingredients industry.

The growing population of health-conscious consumers has recently led to higher demand for vegan and plant-based options, which is also helping propel market growth. Hence, such consumers highly demand plant-based food, beverages, and protein sources. They are low in fat and have lower cholesterol levels. Hence, they provide various benefits for bodily functions, further fueling the industry’s growth.

Technological Advancements Are Helpful for the Market’s Growth

Technological advancements that enhance the formula and benefits of the product are among the major factors driving the growth of the protein ingredients market. Technological advancements help improve fermentation precision, non-thermal processing, enzymatic modification, and advanced extraction methods. Such methods help to improve the functionality, purity, and sustainability of protein. Technological advancements, such as AI and ML, help identify consumer demands and make product modifications accordingly. Hence, such factors help to fuel the market’s growth in the foreseen period. Various other improved methods, such as microencapsulation and 3D printing, enhance protein stability, texture, and delivery, further fueling market growth. Such advancements enhance cost-effectiveness, which is helpful for mass production.

Recent Developments in the Protein Ingredients Market

In November 2025, Tetra Pak launched its sunflower protein, a plant-based protein to help the food and beverage industry expand its product category. The new protein consists of 50% protein along with fiber, vitamins, and antioxidants.

In August 2025, Burcon NutraScience announced the successful commercial production and launch of FavaPro, its 90%+ high-purity fava protein isolate.

Impact of AI in the Protein Ingredients Market

Artificial intelligence (AI) is reshaping the protein ingredients market by accelerating formulation development, improving production efficiency, and enhancing consumer alignment across both plant and animal-based protein categories. In research and formulation, AI-powered algorithms analyze large datasets on amino acid profiles, functional properties, and consumer dietary trends to identify optimal protein combinations for specific applications such as sports nutrition, bakery, dairy alternatives, and ready-to-drink beverages. Machine learning models simulate how different proteins, such as whey, casein, soy, pea, rice, and insect-based proteins, behave under various processing conditions, reducing trial-and-error and enabling manufacturers to achieve ideal solubility, texture, and flavor.

View Full Market Intelligence@ https://www.towardsfnb.com/insights/protein-ingredients-market

New Trends of Protein Ingredients Market

Higher demand for plant-based protein options by health-conscious consumers is one of the major factors for the growth of the market.

Higher consumer awareness of sustainability and eco-friendly protein sources is another major factor driving market growth.

Higher demand for a variety of protein sources in different forms, such as sports drinks and protein supplements, is another major factor for the market’s growth.

Product innovation helps manufacturers introduce protein in new ways and across different products, thereby driving market growth.

Improving technology is helpful to enhance the taste, texture, and nutritional quality of various protein sources, and also helps propel the growth of the market.

Product Survey of the Protein Ingredients Market

Product Category Description or Function Common Forms or Variants Key Applications or End Use Segments Representative Producers or Brands Whey Protein Ingredients Dairy-derived proteins with high biological value and strong solubility. Whey protein concentrate, whey protein isolate, hydrolyzed whey protein Sports nutrition, RTD shakes, bakery, infant formula Arla Foods Ingredients, Hilmar, Glanbia Nutritionals Casein and Caseinates Slow-digesting proteins are used for functional properties and nutritional value. Micellar casein, calcium caseinate, sodium caseinate Sports nutrition, cheese, bakery, and medical nutrition Fonterra, FrieslandCampina Ingredients Egg Protein Ingredients High-quality complete proteins derived from egg whites and whole eggs. Egg white powder, egg protein isolate Sports nutrition, bakery, confectionery Kewpie, Rose Acre Farms Soy Protein Ingredients Affordable plant proteins with strong functional capabilities. Soy protein isolate, soy protein concentrate, textured soy protein Meat alternatives, bakery, sports nutrition ADM, Cargill, DuPont Nutrition Pea Protein Ingredients Plant-based proteins with clean label appeal and good digestibility. Pea protein isolate, textured pea protein, pea flour Dairy alternatives, meat alternatives, nutrition products Roquette, Puris, Ingredion Rice Protein Ingredients Hypoallergenic plant proteins are used for blends and clean-label products. Rice protein concentrate, rice protein isolate Infant foods, vegan nutrition, smoothies Axiom Foods, RiceBran Technologies Wheat Protein Ingredients Functional proteins provide elasticity and structure. Vital wheat gluten, hydrolyzed wheat protein Bakery, plant-based meats, noodles Manildra Group, Roquette Collagen and Gelatin Proteins Animal-derived proteins are used for beauty, joint health, and functional gelling. Type I and II collagen, gelatin powder Beauty supplements, gummies, capsules Gelita, Nitta Gelatin Animal-Based Protein Powders Non-dairy animal proteins for high-protein products. Beef protein isolate, chicken protein powder Sports nutrition, specialty diets MuscleMeds, BHN, Essentia Protein Solutions Algae and Microbial Protein Ingredients Sustainable next-generation proteins produced through microalgae or fermentation. Spirulina protein, chlorella, fermentation-derived protein Functional foods, beverages, and alternative proteins Corbion, Triton Algae Innovations Hemp Protein Ingredients Plant proteins rich in fiber and omega fatty acids. Hemp protein powder, cold-pressed hemp protein Vegan nutrition, smoothies, snacks Manitoba Harvest, Nutiva Fava Bean and Lupin Protein Ingredients Emerging plant proteins with strong functional profiles. Fava protein concentrate, lupin protein isolate Dairy alternatives, bakery, meat alternatives Emsland Group, InnovoPro Insect Protein Ingredients Novel protein sources from crickets and mealworms. Cricket protein powder, insect flour Sports nutrition, snacks, pet food Aspire Food Group, Protix Milk Protein Concentrate and Isolate High-purity dairy proteins are used for fortification and functional foods. MPC, MPI Yogurt, cheese, sports nutrition, high-protein snacks Fonterra, Idaho Milk Products Hydrolyzed Plant Proteins Enzymatically treated proteins for higher solubility and improved absorption. Hydrolyzed pea protein, hydrolyzed soy protein Infant nutrition, medical foods, beverages Kerry, DSM Firmenich Blended Protein Systems Custom blends combining plant and animal proteins for improved amino acid balance. Plant blend proteins, dairy plant blends Sports nutrition, meal replacements Glanbia Nutritionals, private label

For Detailed Pricing and Tailored Market Report Options, Click Here: https://www.towardsfnb.com/checkout/5929

Protein Ingredients Market Dynamics

What Are the Growth Drivers of the Protein Ingredients Market?

Higher demand for functional, plant-based, and convenient protein sources is a major factor driving market growth. Higher consumer awareness regarding health and nutrition, and the importance of protein for the body, is another major factor for the market’s growth. The growing population of vegans, vegetarians, and flexitarians, who demand plant-based protein sources, also helps fuel market growth. The availability of protein-rich food and beverage options in convenient forms, such as protein snacks, bars, and drinks, also helps drive market growth. Such options can be easily adopted by consumers to avoid unhealthy and unnecessary snacking, which is further helpful for market growth.

Challenge

Price Volatility Affecting the Market’s Growth

The raw ingredients required for the manufacturing of plant-based protein, such as soy, pea, and whey, may fluctuate for various reasons. Bad weather, geopolitical issues, or supply chain issues may affect the entire manufacturing process, resulting in higher costs. Hence, it also affects the final product's cost, thereby hampering the growth of the protein ingredients market.

Opportunity

Higher Demand in the Cosmetic Industry Is Helpful for the Market’s Growth

Higher use of plant-based ingredients such as pea, soy, wheat, rice, and almond helps to improve the skin texture, quality, and barrier repair. Hence, it helps to fuel the growth of the protein ingredients market. Such ingredients help to give a plump texture, enhance quality, and maintain the skin’s elasticity and youthfulness. Therefore, they are widely used in the cosmetic manufacturing industry, further fueling market growth. Such ingredients also help retain the skin’s moisture, further helping attract consumers’ attention and drive market growth.

Protein Ingredients Market Regional Analysis

North America Dominated the Protein Ingredients Market in 2024

North America led the protein ingredients market in 2024, driven by changing consumer lifestyles, rapid urbanization, and higher demand for convenient protein sources in the form of bars, snacks, and beverages. Such options allow consumers to avoid unhealthy snacking with ease and are available across various platforms, further fueling market growth. The US and Canada play a major role in the growth of the regional market due to high demand for convenient protein sources and growing consumer awareness of health and nutrition. The growing fad of high-protein diets such as keto and paleo in the US is another major factor fueling the market’s growth.

Asia Pacific Is Expected to Grow in the Forecast Period

Asia Pacific is expected to grow over the forecast period due to rapid urbanization, changing consumer preferences, and growing consumer awareness of health and nutrition, which are major factors driving the growth of the protein ingredients market. The growing population of vegans and vegetarians demanding plant-based protein options made from soy, wheat, soya, and fava also helps fuel market growth. Higher demand for convenient, ready-to-eat, and ready-to-cook options also helps to fuel the market’s growth in the foreseen period. Countries such as India, China, Japan, and South Korea have made major contributions to the growth of the region's market due to changing lifestyles, higher demand for convenient options, and greater demand for products with longer shelf lives.

Europe Has Observed a Notable Growth in the Foreseeable Period

Europe is expected to see notable growth over the forecast period due to changing consumer lifestyles, rising demand for convenient protein sources, and demand for healthier alternatives. The growing population of vegans, vegetarians, and flexitarians in the region is another major factor for the market’s growth. Higher demand for vegetarian, clean-label, and functional protein ingredients also helps fuel the growth of the protein ingredients market. Countries such as the UK, Germany, and France help fuel market growth through the growing organic industry, which supports the manufacturing of clean-label and plant-based protein sources.

Protein Ingredients Market Report Scope

Report Attribute Key Statistics Base Year 2024 Forecast Period 2025 to 2034 Growth Rate from 2025 to 2034 CAGR of 5.7% Market Size in 2025 USD 55.73 Billion Market Size in 2026 USD 58.90 Billion Market Size by 2034 USD 91.78 Billion Dominated Region North America Fastest Growing Region Asia Pacific Regions Covered North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Middle East & Africa

Have Questions? Let’s Talk—Schedule a Meeting with Our Insights Team: https://www.towardsfnb.com/schedule-meeting

Trade Analysis of Protein Ingredient Market

Import & Export Statistics

Global Trade Scale and Recent Trend Signals

The global protein ingredients market covers animal proteins (whey, casein, collagen), plant proteins (soy, pea, wheat, oat), and emerging precision fermentation and single-cell proteins used in food, beverages, nutrition, and feed. Market estimates for 2024 place the sector in the tens of billions of US dollars, with mid-single-digit to low-double-digit CAGRs across subsegments (plant proteins growing fastest). Drivers include the growing demand for high-protein foods, sports nutrition, and clinical nutrition, as well as the shift toward plant-based and hybrid protein formulations.

Leading Exporters (Value and Volume)

Export leadership varies by ingredient: Brazil and the United States dominate global soybean flows that underpin soy protein supply, while the European Union and the United States are the largest exporters of whey and whey concentrates. Canada historically led pea exports into China but recent seasons saw Russia scale rapidly as a major pea origin for China’s pea protein industry. These origin shifts matter because they change freight patterns, processing location decisions and price signals for downstream protein ingredient processors.

Major Importers and Demand Hubs

Import demand concentrates in large processing and consumption markets. China is a leading importer of whey and plant protein feedstocks for its fast-expanding ingredient and meat-alternatives industry, while the EU and the United States are major importers of specialty isolates and concentrates for food manufacturing. Japan, South Korea and parts of Southeast Asia also import significant volumes of high-specification dairy and plant protein ingredients for infant formula, sports nutrition and fortified food lines.

Protein Ingredients Market Segmental Analysis

Product Analysis

The animal/dairy protein ingredients segment dominated the protein ingredients market in 2024, driven by higher demand for protein sources derived from dairy or animal-based ingredients. The market is also observed to be growing due to technological advancements in animal feed, pharmaceuticals, the food and beverage industry, and other related sectors. The growing demand for sports nutrition beverages and other protein sources also helps fuel market growth. The benefits of protein for muscle recovery, muscle building, and weight management are major factors driving market growth.

The insect protein segment is expected to grow over the forecast period, as insects require less feed, water, and land, further leading to lower greenhouse gas emissions. Hence, they are an ideal source of eco-friendly protein options that will help fuel the market's growth in the foreseeable future. Such protein options are also enriched with vitamins, minerals, and amino acids, which are beneficial for market growth.

Application Analysis

The food and beverage segment dominated the protein ingredients market in 2024, driven by higher demand for functional, organic, and plant-based products. The availability of protein sources in convenient forms, such as protein bars, snacks, and beverages, also helps fuel the growth of the protein ingredients industry. Higher demand for high-protein ready-to-drink beverages, baked goods, and snacks also fuels market growth. The availability of products with longer shelf life and enhanced taste and texture is another major factor driving market growth.

The animal feed segment is expected to grow over the foreseeable period due to rising demand for animal-based protein. It also leads to higher demand for high-quality, effective animal feed, which helps enhance livestock nutrition. It is a cost-effective, sustainable, and healthy option, further fueling the market’s growth. Hence, the segment will make a major contribution to the market's growth in the foreseeable future.

Feel Free to Get in Touch with Us for Orders or Any Questions at: sales@towardsfnb.com

Additional Topics Worth Exploring:

Tea Market : The global tea market size is projected to expand from USD 30.25 billion in 2025 to USD 54.68 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 6.8% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034

: The global size is projected to expand from USD 30.25 billion in 2025 to USD 54.68 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 6.8% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034 Beverage Packaging Market: The global beverage packaging market size is projected to reach USD 271.80 billion by 2034, growing from USD 173.71 billion in 2025, at a CAGR of 5.1% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

The global size is projected to reach USD 271.80 billion by 2034, growing from USD 173.71 billion in 2025, at a CAGR of 5.1% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Gluten Free Food Market: The global gluten free food market size increasing from USD 14.25 billion in 2025 and is expected to surpass USD 33.59 billion by 2034, with a projected CAGR of 10% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

The global size increasing from USD 14.25 billion in 2025 and is expected to surpass USD 33.59 billion by 2034, with a projected CAGR of 10% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Canned Wines Market: The global canned wines market size is expected to increase from USD 127.88 million in 2025 to USD 332.46 million by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 11.2% throughout the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

The global size is expected to increase from USD 127.88 million in 2025 to USD 332.46 million by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 11.2% throughout the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Plant-Based Protein Market: The global plant-based protein market size is projected to expand from USD 20.33 billion in 2025 and is expected to reach USD 43.07 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 8.7% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

The global size is projected to expand from USD 20.33 billion in 2025 and is expected to reach USD 43.07 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 8.7% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Bakery Product Market : The global bakery product market size is rising from USD 507.46 billion in 2025 to USD 821.62 billion by 2034. This projected expansion reflects a CAGR of 5.5% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

: The global size is rising from USD 507.46 billion in 2025 to USD 821.62 billion by 2034. This projected expansion reflects a CAGR of 5.5% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Coconut Products Market: The global coconut products market size is expected to climb from USD 14.18 billion in 2025 to approximately USD 33.71 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 10.1% during the forecast from 2025 to 2034.

The global is expected to climb from USD 14.18 billion in 2025 to approximately USD 33.71 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 10.1% during the forecast from 2025 to 2034. Pet Food Market: The global pet food market size is expected to increase from USD 113.02 billion in 2025 to USD 167.97 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 4.5% throughout the estimated timeframe from 2025 to 2034.

The global is expected to increase from USD 113.02 billion in 2025 to USD 167.97 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 4.5% throughout the estimated timeframe from 2025 to 2034. Organic Food Market: The global organic food market size is expected to grow from USD 253.96 billion in 2025 to USD 660.25 billion by 2034, with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 11.20% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

Top Companies in the Protein Ingredients Market

• DuPont – Develops a wide portfolio of plant-based and dairy protein ingredients used in nutrition, bakery, beverages, and meat alternatives. The company focuses on functional proteins that enhance texture, stability, and nutritional value.

• Rousselot – A global leader in gelatin and collagen peptides used in nutrition, pharmaceuticals, and functional foods. The company specializes in high-purity proteins that support health, joint care, and clean-label applications.

• ADM – Produces soy, wheat, pea, and specialty plant proteins for food, beverage, and sports nutrition categories. ADM combines large-scale processing with advanced formulation capabilities for global brands.

• Burcon – Specializes in next-generation plant proteins, including pea, canola, and hemp protein isolates. The company focuses on high-purity, allergen-friendly ingredients for dairy alternatives and functional foods.

• Tessenderlo Group – Offers specialty proteins, gelatin, and collagen ingredients used in food, pharma, and animal nutrition. The company is known for high-quality protein extraction and processing technologies.

• Kewpie Corporation – Provides egg-derived and plant-based protein ingredients used in processed foods, dressings, and nutrition products. The company focuses on functional proteins with emulsification and gelation properties.

• Roquette Freres – A major producer of pea, wheat, and potato proteins for plant-based foods, sports nutrition, and bakery applications. Roquette emphasizes sustainability and large-scale pea protein production.

• The Scoular Company – Supplies plant-based proteins and grain-derived ingredients to the food, pet, and nutrition markets. The company offers soy, pulse, and novel proteins through integrated supply chains.

• CHS, Inc. – Produces soy protein concentrates and isolates used in food processing, animal feed, and meat alternatives. CHS operates across the full agricultural value chain, ensuring consistent ingredient quality.

• Mead Johnson & Company, LLC – Specializes in pediatric and infant nutrition formulas containing high-quality milk-derived proteins. The company focuses on clinically supported protein blends for early-life nutrition.

• CropEnergies AG – Produces sustainable wheat proteins and fermentation co-products, including high-protein animal feed. The company’s protein ingredients support food, feed, and bio-based sectors.

• Fonterra Co-Operative Group – A leading global dairy cooperative providing whey proteins, caseinates, and milk protein concentrates. Fonterra focuses on high-functionality dairy proteins for nutrition and sports applications.

• Bunge Limited – Supplies soy and other plant proteins across food, beverage, and feed markets. The company leverages extensive crushing and processing assets to produce large-scale protein ingredients.

• Cargill, Incorporated – Offers soy, pea, and specialty protein ingredients used in beverages, bakery, and plant-based meats. Cargill provides integrated supply, formulation, and clean-label solutions.

• MGP – Produces wheat and pea proteins, starches, and specialty ingredients for food, beverage, and nutrition applications. The company specializes in functional proteins with strong texturizing properties.

• Ingredion – Supplies pulse, rice, and pea protein ingredients designed for plant-based foods and nutrition products. Ingredion prioritizes clean-label, gluten-free, and sustainable protein solutions.

• Kerry Inc. – Provides dairy and plant protein ingredients used in beverages, sports nutrition, and functional foods. Kerry integrates flavor systems with proteins to improve taste and performance.

• Givaudan – Develops plant-based protein solutions paired with flavor masking and texture enhancement technologies. The company focuses on improving sensory profiles in meat and dairy alternative products.

• Axiom Foods – A leader in rice, pea, and hemp protein concentrates and isolates for clean-label nutrition. The company emphasizes allergen-free, non-GMO, and sustainable protein ingredients.

• Tate & Lyle – Produces plant-based protein ingredients and functional fibers for food and beverage formulations. The company integrates proteins with sweeteners and texturizers for balanced performance.

• Puris – A major supplier of non-GMO pea protein used in plant-based meats, dairy alternatives, and beverages. Puris operates vertically integrated pea supply chains with a strong sustainability focus.

• DSM – Provides dairy, plant, and microbial proteins for specialized nutrition, including sports and early-life applications. DSM focuses on science-driven protein innovation and nutritional fortification.

• Glanbia Plc – Produces high-performance whey and functional dairy proteins widely used in sports nutrition and clinical nutrition. The company also develops plant protein blends for emerging categories.

• Louis Dreyfus Company – Offers soy and specialty plant proteins supported by global processing and trading capabilities. The company supplies ingredients for food, feed, and plant-based product sectors.

• Barentz – A global distributor of specialty proteins and nutritional ingredients used in functional foods and beverages. Barentz partners with protein manufacturers to serve multiple regions and applications.

• Nutri-Pea – Specializes in Canadian-grown pea protein concentrates and isolates used in plant-based foods and beverages. The company focuses on high-purity, allergen-friendly protein ingredients.

• Prinova Group LLC – Provides protein ingredients, amino acids, and custom nutrient premixes for food, beverage, and sports nutrition. Prinova offers formulation support and global ingredient sourcing.

Segments Covered in the Report

By Product

Plant Protein Cereals Wheat Wheat Protein Concentrates Wheat Protein Isolates Textured Wheat Protein Hydrolyzed Wheat Protein HMEC/HMMA Wheat Protein Rice Rice Protein Isolates Rice Protein Concentrates Hydrolyzed Rice Protein Others Oats Oat Protein Concentrates Oat Protein Isolates Hydrolyzed Oat Protein Others Legumes Soy Soy Protein Concentrates Soy Protein Isolates Textured Soy Protein Hydrolyzed Soy Protein HMEC/HMMA Soy Protein Pea Soy Protein Concentrates Soy Protein Isolates Textured Soy Protein Hydrolyzed Soy Protein HMEC/HMMA Soy Protein

Lupine

Chickpea

Others Roots Potato Potato Protein Concentrate Potato Protein Isolate Maca Others Ancient Grains Hemp Quinoa Sorghum Amaranth Chia Others Nuts & Seeds Canola Almond Flaxseeds Others Animal/Dairy Protein Egg Protein Milk Protein Concentrates/Isolates Whey Protein Concentrates Whey Protein Hydrolysates Whey Protein Isolates Gelatin Casein/Caseinates Collagen Peptides Microbe-based Protein Algae Bacteria Yeast Fungi Insect Protein Coleoptera Lepidoptera Hymnoptera Orthoptera Hemiptera Diptera Others

By Application

Food & Beverages Bakery & Confectionary Beverages (Non-Dairy Alternatives) Breakfast Cereals Dairy Alternatives Beverages Cheese Snacks Others

Dietary Supplements/Weight Management

Meat Alternatives & Extenders Poultry Beef Pork Others

Snacks (Non-Dairy Alternatives)

Sports Nutrition

Others

Infant Formulations

Clinical Nutrients

Animal Feed

Others

By Region

North America

U.S.

Canada

Asia Pacific

China

Japan

India

South Korea

Thailand

Europe

Germany

UK

France

Italy

Spain

Sweden

Denmark

Norway

Latin America

Brazil

Mexico

Argentina

Middle East and Africa (MEA)

South Africa

UAE

Saudi Arabia

Kuwait

Thank you for exploring our insights. For more targeted information, customized chapter-wise sections and region-specific editions such as North America, Europe, or Asia Pacific—are also available upon request.

For Detailed Pricing and Tailored Market Report Options, Click Here: https://www.towardsfnb.com/checkout/5929

Feel Free to Get in Touch with Us for Orders or Any Questions at: sales@towardsfnb.com

Unlock expert insights, custom research, and premium support with the Towards FnB Annual Membership. For USD 495/month (billed annually), get full access to exclusive F&B market data and personalized guidance. It’s your strategic edge in the food and beverage industry: https://www.towardsfnb.com/get-an-annual-membership
[Source link]: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/12/01/3197191/0/en/Protein-Ingredients-Market-Size-to-Exceed-USD-91-78-Billion-by-2034-Towards-FnB.html


[TITLE]Vegan Margarine Market Size to Worth USD 2.65 Billion by 2034 | Towards FnB:
[TEXT]
Ottawa, Dec. 01, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The global vegan margarine market size stood at USD 1.45 billion in 2024 and is predicted to increase from USD 1.54 billion in 2025 to reach around USD 2.65 billion by 2034, according to a report published by Towards FnB, a sister firm of Precedence Research. This momentum is strengthened by increasing investments in food innovation, improvements in plant-based oil processing technologies, and rising market participation from major global brands, which together are accelerating product accessibility and consumer acceptance worldwide.

The market is expected to grow as a health-conscious crowd demands plant-based options. Higher demand for plant-based dairy alternatives and other healthier options is another major factor driving market growth.

Note: This report is readily available for immediate delivery. We can review it with you in a meeting to ensure data reliability and quality for decision-making.

Access the Full Study Instantly | Download Sample Pages of the Report Now@ https://www.towardsfnb.com/download-sample/5926

Key Highlights of the Vegan Margarine Market

By region, Europe led the vegan margarine market in 2024, whereas the Asia Pacific is expected to grow in the forecasted timeframe.

By nature, the conventional segment dominated the vegan margarine market in 2024, whereas the organic segment is expected to grow in the foreseeable period.

By flavor, the salted segment dominated the vegan margarine market in 2024, whereas the unsalted segment is expected to grow in the foreseeable period.

By application, the B2B segment led the vegan margarine market in 2024, whereas the B2C segment is expected to grow in the foreseeable period.

Higher Demand for Healthier Alternatives is helpful for the Growth of the Vegan Margarine Industry

The vegan margarine market has been growing significantly in recent years due to higher demand for plant-based options, healthier alternatives, and increased consumer awareness of environmental sustainability. The vegan margarine is made from plant-derived ingredients free from milk, butter, casein, or whey. Hence, health-conscious consumers prefer healthier options, further fueling market growth. Such healthier options are usually made from canola oil, soybean oil, or corn oil, along with other ingredients such as emulsified fat, water, and plant-based milk.

The growing population of health-conscious consumers, plant-based diet followers, and vegan diet followers helps fuel the market's growth. Such diets are also healthier and helpful for people with conditions such as diabetes, high cholesterol, and high blood pressure, as well as for those who wish to lose those extra inches. Such products are also used by consumers following a flexitarian diet and seeking premium, organic options.

Technological Advancements are helpful for the Growth of the Vegan Margarine Industry

Technological advancements, such as the use of oleogels, interesterification to produce low-saturated-fat products, the incorporation of novel plant-based oils, and the development of processing methods that help replicate the taste and feel of dairy-based butter in vegan form, are helping to fuel the growth of the vegan margarine market. Emerging technologies also support the adoption of sustainable options and manufacturing methods to reduce environmental impact, which is helpful for market growth.

Recent Developments in the Vegan Margarine Market

In March 2025, Savor officially launched its plant-free and animal-free carbon-based butter. The product was soon used for special dinners hosted in New York City and San Francisco. The product is made via a thermochemical process using point-captured carbon dioxide, green hydrogen, and methane.

View Full Market Intelligence@ https://www.towardsfnb.com/insights/vegan-margarine-market

New Trends of the Vegan Margarine Market

Technological advancements that help manufacturers produce vegan options that replicate the taste and texture of dairy-based butter are a major factor in the market's growth.

Functional vegan options consisting of vitamins A and D, along with the use of low-fat ingredients, are highly opted for by health-conscious consumers, further fueling the growth of the market.

Products made from sustainable ingredients and methods are preferred by consumers, further fueling the growth of the market.

Easy availability of such products and their higher adoption by the foodservice industry are other major factors for the growth of the market.

Impact of AI in the Vegan Margarine Market

Artificial intelligence is influencing the vegan margarine market by improving formulation and production efficiency, and aligning with evolving consumer expectations for clean-label, plant-based products. In research and development, AI-powered algorithms analyze data on plant oils, emulsifiers, stabilizers, and flavor compounds to design vegan margarine that replicates the spreadability, meltability, and taste of traditional butter. Machine learning models simulate how different oil blends, such as sunflower, avocado, canola, and coconut, behave under various processing conditions, reducing trial-and-error and speeding up the development of healthier, allergen-friendly, and fortified margarine variants.

AI-driven predictive analytics optimize temperature control, mixing speeds, and crystallization steps to ensure consistent texture and stability. Computer vision systems detect defects, air pockets, or color inconsistencies in real time, helping companies maintain uniform quality and comply with food safety standards. These systems also reduce waste and improve efficiency during production and packaging.

Product Survey of the Vegan Margarine Market

Product Category Description or Function Common Forms or Variants Key Applications or End Use Segments Representative Producers or Brands Standard Vegan Margarine Plant-based margarine made without dairy ingredients for general cooking and spreading. Regular spread, table margarine, basic buttery spread Home cooking, baking, and sandwiches Flora Plant, Earth Balance, Blue Bonnet Plant-Based Organic Vegan Margarine Margarine is made from certified organic plant oils and emulsifiers. Organic spreads, organic buttery blocks Organic retail, natural food stores Nutiva Organic, Miyoko’s Creamery, 365 Organic Soy Free Vegan Margarine Formulated without soy to reduce allergen concerns. Soy-free buttery spreads made from coconut, avocado, or canola oils Allergen-sensitive consumers, clean-label buyers Earth Balance Soy Free, Melt Organic Gluten Free Vegan Margarine Margarine is free from gluten-containing ingredients. Gluten-free buttery spreads Gluten-free foods, health-focused retail Country Crock Plant Butter, Earth Balance GF High Oleic Oil Based Vegan Margarine Margarine formulated with high oleic sunflower or canola oils for improved stability. High oleic spreads, high heat margarine Baking, frying, foodservice Upfield Professional, Bunge Loders Croklaan Coconut Oil-Based Vegan Margarine Richer, creamier margarine derived from coconut oil blends. Coconut butter spreads, coconut plant butter Gourmet spreads, baking, vegan desserts Nutiva Coconut Manna, Miyoko’s Coconut-Based Spread Olive Oil-Based Vegan Margarine Premium spreads with olive oil as a key ingredient for Mediterranean-style flavor. Olive oil buttery spreads, extra virgin olive oil blends Premium retail, health-oriented consumers Olivio Plant-Based, Pure Blends Olive Oil Avocado Oil-Based Vegan Margarine Smooth, high-monounsaturated-fat spread made with avocado oil. Avocado buttery spreads Health-focused retail, clean-label consumers Country Crock Plant Butter with Avocado Oil Canola Oil-Based Vegan Margarine Neutral-tasting spread with a balanced fatty acid profile. Canola oil, margarine, blended spreads Everyday cooking, baking Earth Balance, Golden Award Vegan Spreads Vegan Block Margarine for Baking Firm margarine blocks designed to replicate butter functionality in baking. Baking blocks, pastry blocks Pastry, biscuits, bakery, foodservice Flora Plant Butter Blocks, Upfield Professional Reduced Fat Vegan Margarine Formulated to deliver lower fat content while maintaining spreadability. Light vegan spreads, low-fat margarine Diet foods, weight management Smart Balance Plant-Based Light, Private Label Vegan Margarine for Foodservice and Industrial Use Bulk margarine solutions for commercial bakery and food processors. Industrial tubs, bakery fat blocks, frying margarines Industrial baking, frying, and large kitchens Bunge, Wilmar, Upfield Foodservice Flavored Vegan Margarine Plant-based margarine with added flavors for specialty or gourmet applications. Garlic herb, smoked, sweet cinnamon Bakery, gourmet meals, retail spreads Private label, artisanal vegan spread makers Omega-3 Enriched Vegan Margarine Spread fortified with plant-derived omega oils. Flaxseed-enriched margarine, chia oil blends Health-oriented consumers, fortified foods Earth Balance Omega 3, Organic vegan fortified lines

For Detailed Pricing and Tailored Market Report Options, Click Here: https://www.towardsfnb.com/checkout/5926

Vegan Margarine Market Dynamics

What Are the Growth Drivers of the Vegan Margarine Market?

Health benefits, such as organic, sustainable, lower-cholesterol, diabetic-friendly, and plant-based options, are major drivers of market growth. Technological advancements that help give vegan margarine a dairy-like feel, taste, and texture are another major driver of the market’s growth. The market also has a large consumer base of lactose-intolerant people who are always on the lookout for plant-based, organic, and healthier options to maintain their nutritional needs.

Challenge

Higher Production Costs Are Hampering the Market’s Growth

The vegan margarine is made from plant-based, sustainable ingredients that cost more than the conventional ingredients used to make butter. The formulation involves manufacturing specific plant oils, such as olive or coconut oil, to produce the final product, which is more expensive than traditional methods. High production costs also lead to a higher final product price, which may hamper sales and further restrict the growth of the vegan margarine market.

Opportunity

Product Innovation Is Helpful for the Market’s Growth

The development of vegan margarine with non-allergen formulations to expand the consumer base is a major factor driving market growth. Infusing vegan products with essential vitamins A and D, along with clean-label ingredients and a non-GMO certification, is another major opportunity for market growth in the foreseeable future. Development in the taste, nutritional, and texture profiles of vegan products helps attract more consumer attention and fuels the market’s growth.

Vegan Margarine Market Regional Analysis

Europe Dominated the Vegan Margarine Market in 2024

Europe dominated the vegan margarine market in 2024 due to higher consumer demand for organic, sustainable, plant-based, and healthier alternatives. The growing population of health-conscious consumers following a plant-based, vegan, or flexitarian diet is fueling market growth in the region.

Technological advancements that enhance the taste, texture, and quality of vegan margarine are another major factor driving the market's growth in the region. Countries such as Germany, France, and the UK have made major contributions to the market's growth, with Germany topping the list. Consumers in the country highly prefer vegan, plant-based, and healthier food options to maintain their health profiles, further fueling market growth.

Asia Pacific Is Expected to Grow in the Forecast Period

Asia Pacific is expected to grow over the forecast period due to increased adoption of various diets, such as vegetarian, vegan, plant-based, and flexitarian. A large vegetarian population seeking organic, healthier, and sustainable options is another major factor driving the growth of the vegan margarine market in the foreseeable future.

Rapid urbanization, rising disposable income, and higher demand for vegan options also help fuel market growth. Countries such as India, China, Japan, and South Korea have made major contributions to the market's growth, driven by the growing number of health-conscious people seeking healthier food options to maintain their health profiles.

North America Is Observed to Have a Notable Growth in the Foreseeable Period

North America is expected to see notable growth over the forecast period due to high demand for healthier, vegan food options. Higher demand for plant-based, healthy, and functional food options in the region is another major factor driving market growth. The market is also seeing growth driven by the region's growing population of flexitarians, who demand vegan and dairy-free options. The US and Canada make major contributions to market growth due to health-conscious consumers, the trend toward plant-based and sustainable diets, and the growing number of vegans and flexitarians.

Vegan Margarine Market Report Scope

Report Attribute Key Statistics Base Year 2024 Forecast Period 2025 to 2034 Growth Rate from 2025 to 2034 CAGR of 6.2% Market Size in 2025 USD 1.54 Billion Market Size in 2026 USD 1.64 Billion Market Size by 2034 USD 2.65 Billion Dominated Region Europe Fastest Growing Region Asia Pacific Regions Covered North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Middle East & Africa

Have Questions? Let’s Talk—Schedule a Meeting with Our Insights Team: https://www.towardsfnb.com/schedule-meeting

Vegan Margarine Market Segmental Analysis

Nature Analysis

The conventional segment led the vegan margarine market in 2024 due to its multiple health benefits for heart health, cholesterol, and cardiovascular health. The manufacturing process for vegan margarine is also eco-friendly, with multiple health benefits, further enhancing the market's growth. Such products are healthier, have a lower environmental impact, and are more nutritious. People with certain allergies and health issues also make a major contribution to the growth of the vegan margarine market

The organic segment is expected to grow over the foreseeable period due to higher demand for plant-based and functional ingredients, which are driving market growth. Higher demand for sustainable, eco-friendly options to reduce environmental impact is another major factor driving the market’s growth. Higher demand for functional baking using organic ingredients is another major factor driving market growth in the foreseeable future.

Flavor Analysis

The salted segment dominated the vegan margarine market in 2024 due to its taste and texture similar to dairy butter. Vegan margarine’s taste is similar to dairy butter, with added health benefits, which is another major factor driving market growth. The vegan margarine is low in cholesterol, diabetic-friendly, and made with plant-based ingredients, further fueling the market's growth.

The unsalted segment is expected to grow over the forecast period due to its high demand in the baking and cooking industries, fueling market growth. The unsalted vegan margarine is also essential for consumers with various lifestyle-related issues, further fueling the market’s growth. Such products are also beneficial for people to lower their excess sodium intake.

Distribution Channel Analysis

The B2B segment dominated the market in 2024 due to high demand for vegan margarine across the baking, cooking, and fast-food manufacturing industries as a substitute for salted butter. The vegan margarine is a cost-effective, healthier alternative, further fueling market growth. The vegan margarine also provides a similar texture and taste to regular butter for baked goods, along with various health benefits, making it highly demanded in the market.

The B2C segment is expected to grow in the foreseen period due to its multiple health benefits and cost-effectiveness. Such options are healthier and are ideal for consumers suffering from lifestyle-related health issues such as diabetes, cholesterol, obesity, or other similar problems. Higher demand for product innovation and innovative flavors in margarine and spreads is another major factor driving market growth. Hence, such factors, when compiled, help fuel the market's growth in the foreseeable period.

Feel Free to Get in Touch with Us for Orders or Any Questions at: sales@towardsfnb.com

Additional Topics Worth Exploring:

Tea Market : The global tea market size is projected to expand from USD 30.25 billion in 2025 to USD 54.68 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 6.8% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034

: The global size is projected to expand from USD 30.25 billion in 2025 to USD 54.68 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 6.8% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034 Beverage Packaging Market: The global beverage packaging market size is projected to reach USD 271.80 billion by 2034, growing from USD 173.71 billion in 2025, at a CAGR of 5.1% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

The global size is projected to reach USD 271.80 billion by 2034, growing from USD 173.71 billion in 2025, at a CAGR of 5.1% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Gluten Free Food Market: The global gluten free food market size increasing from USD 14.25 billion in 2025 and is expected to surpass USD 33.59 billion by 2034, with a projected CAGR of 10% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

The global size increasing from USD 14.25 billion in 2025 and is expected to surpass USD 33.59 billion by 2034, with a projected CAGR of 10% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Canned Wines Market: The global canned wines market size is expected to increase from USD 127.88 million in 2025 to USD 332.46 million by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 11.2% throughout the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

The global size is expected to increase from USD 127.88 million in 2025 to USD 332.46 million by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 11.2% throughout the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Plant-Based Protein Market: The global plant-based protein market size is projected to expand from USD 20.33 billion in 2025 and is expected to reach USD 43.07 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 8.7% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

The global size is projected to expand from USD 20.33 billion in 2025 and is expected to reach USD 43.07 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 8.7% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Bakery Product Market : The global bakery product market size is rising from USD 507.46 billion in 2025 to USD 821.62 billion by 2034. This projected expansion reflects a CAGR of 5.5% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

: The global size is rising from USD 507.46 billion in 2025 to USD 821.62 billion by 2034. This projected expansion reflects a CAGR of 5.5% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Coconut Products Market: The global coconut products market size is expected to climb from USD 14.18 billion in 2025 to approximately USD 33.71 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 10.1% during the forecast from 2025 to 2034.

The global is expected to climb from USD 14.18 billion in 2025 to approximately USD 33.71 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 10.1% during the forecast from 2025 to 2034. Pet Food Market: The global pet food market size is expected to increase from USD 113.02 billion in 2025 to USD 167.97 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 4.5% throughout the estimated timeframe from 2025 to 2034.

The global is expected to increase from USD 113.02 billion in 2025 to USD 167.97 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 4.5% throughout the estimated timeframe from 2025 to 2034. Organic Food Market: The global organic food market size is expected to grow from USD 253.96 billion in 2025 to USD 660.25 billion by 2034, with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 11.20% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

Top Companies in the Vegan Margarine Market

Compassionate Choices Pvt. Ltd. – An India-based producer of plant-based butter and margarine alternatives using vegetable oils and clean-label formulations. The company focuses on ethical, dairy-free spreads for retail and foodservice markets.

– An India-based producer of plant-based butter and margarine alternatives using vegetable oils and clean-label formulations. The company focuses on ethical, dairy-free spreads for retail and foodservice markets. PT Sinar Mas Agro Resources and Technology Tbk – An Indonesia-based agribusiness manufacturer producing vegan margarine and specialty fats made from sustainably sourced palm and vegetable oils. Its products are widely used across baking, confectionery, and industrial applications.

– An Indonesia-based agribusiness manufacturer producing vegan margarine and specialty fats made from sustainably sourced palm and vegetable oils. Its products are widely used across baking, confectionery, and industrial applications. Amarlane Foods – An Israel-based manufacturer offering plant-based margarine solutions for household and commercial baking. The company emphasizes allergen-friendly, dairy-free formulations aligned with vegan and kosher markets.

– An Israel-based manufacturer offering plant-based margarine solutions for household and commercial baking. The company emphasizes allergen-friendly, dairy-free formulations aligned with vegan and kosher markets. Earth Balance – A U.S. category leader in dairy-free spreads, producing vegan margarine, buttery sticks, and organic variants. The brand is known for natural vegetable oil blends and strong distribution in retail and foodservice channels.

– A U.S. category leader in dairy-free spreads, producing vegan margarine, buttery sticks, and organic variants. The brand is known for natural vegetable oil blends and strong distribution in retail and foodservice channels. Flora Food Group – A Netherlands-based producer of plant-based margarines made from sustainable vegetable oils. The brand focuses on environmentally responsible production and offers widely recognized dairy-free spreads across Europe.

– A Netherlands-based producer of plant-based margarines made from sustainable vegetable oils. The brand focuses on environmentally responsible production and offers widely recognized dairy-free spreads across Europe. Naturli’ Foods A/S – A Denmark-based pioneer in plant-based dairy alternatives, offering vegan butter and margarine made from coconut, rapeseed, and other natural oils. The company is known for clean-label products and strong sustainability commitments.

– A Denmark-based pioneer in plant-based dairy alternatives, offering vegan butter and margarine made from coconut, rapeseed, and other natural oils. The company is known for clean-label products and strong sustainability commitments. Miyoko’s Kitchen – A U.S. company specializing in premium vegan butters crafted from nuts and plant cultures. Its artisanal, dairy-free formulations target both home consumers and professional chefs.

– A U.S. company specializing in premium vegan butters crafted from nuts and plant cultures. Its artisanal, dairy-free formulations target both home consumers and professional chefs. Danone S.A. – A France-based multinational providing plant-based dairy alternatives through its global brands. Its vegan margarine offerings support the company’s broader shift toward sustainable and dairy-free nutrition solutions.

– A France-based multinational providing plant-based dairy alternatives through its global brands. Its vegan margarine offerings support the company’s broader shift toward sustainable and dairy-free nutrition solutions. Daiya Foods – A Canada-based producer of dairy-free foods, offering vegan margarine and buttery spreads as part of its allergen-friendly product line. The company avoids dairy, gluten, soy, and other common allergens.

– A Canada-based producer of dairy-free foods, offering vegan margarine and buttery spreads as part of its allergen-friendly product line. The company avoids dairy, gluten, soy, and other common allergens. Melt Organic – A U.S. brand producing organic vegan margarine blends based on coconut, flaxseed, and palm fruit oils. Its spreads are designed for clean-label consumers seeking functional, nutrient-rich plant-based alternatives.

Segments Covered in the Report

By Nature

Conventional

Organic

By Flavor

Salted

Unsalted

By Application

B2B (Supermarket/Hypermarket)

B2C

Convenience Store

Specialty Store

E-Retailers

Others

By Region

North America

U.S.

Canada

Asia Pacific

China

Japan

India

South Korea

Thailand

Europe

Germany

UK

France

Italy

Spain

Sweden

Denmark

Norway

Latin America

Brazil

Mexico

Argentina

Middle East and Africa (MEA)

South Africa

UAE

Saudi Arabia

Kuwait

Thank you for exploring our insights. For more targeted information, customized chapter-wise sections and region-specific editions such as North America, Europe, or Asia Pacific—are also available upon request.

For Detailed Pricing and Tailored Market Report Options, Click Here: https://www.towardsfnb.com/checkout/5926

Feel Free to Get in Touch with Us for Orders or Any Questions at: sales@towardsfnb.com

Unlock expert insights, custom research, and premium support with the Towards FnB Annual Membership. For USD 495/month (billed annually), get full access to exclusive F&B market data and personalized guidance. It’s your strategic edge in the food and beverage industry: https://www.towardsfnb.com/get-an-annual-membership
[Source link]: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/12/01/3197147/0/en/Vegan-Margarine-Market-Size-to-Worth-USD-2-65-Billion-by-2034-Towards-FnB.html


[TITLE]Meesho IPO: How the women-powered platform left Amazon and Flipkart chasing discounts:
[TEXT]
Live Events

as a Reliable and Trusted News Source Addas a Reliable and Trusted News Source Add Now!

(You can now subscribe to our

(You can now subscribe to our ETMarkets WhatsApp channel

Meesho's rise to the top of India's e-commerce market has rewritten the rules of online retail. What began as a platform selling inexpensive fashion has turned into the largest e-commerce marketplace in the country by building an audience far away from India's metros. At a time when Amazon and Flipkart dominate urban shopping and premium categories, Meesho's success has come from understanding how small-town Indians shop, what they are willing to pay and how they prefer to discover products.Its latest filings and industry data show a company built not on big-ticket spending but on millions of low-value orders that now shape India’s online commerce story. In FY25, the company reported that 198.77 million annual transacting users shopped on the platform, and 174.43 million of them were from outside India’s top eight cities.In the following twelve-month period ending September 2025, the share grew even further, with 234.20 million users in total, of which 205.80 million were from non-metro India. This means the overwhelming majority of Meesho's shoppers now come from Tier-2, Tier-3 and smaller towns.The strength of this customer base also shows in the company's order volumes. Meesho had 213 million Annual Transacting Users as of June, who placed 561.9 million orders serviced by more than 575,000 sellers. Its filings show that placed orders have surged from 1,024.34 million in FY23 to 1,341.94 million in FY24 and further to 1,834.40 million in FY25.These are not metro-led figures. Meesho says nearly 90% of its orders come from smaller Indian towns, making it one of the widest rural and semi-urban e-commerce footprints in the country.What makes this growth even sharper is Meesho’s falling average order value (AOV). In FY23, the AOV was Rs 336.71. It dropped to Rs 298 in FY24 and to Rs 274.27 in FY25. In the six-month period ending September 2025, the AOV fell further to Rs 265.50.These numbers show that Meesho's core buyers are not purchasing high-value electronics, premium clothing or branded goods in large quantities. They are buying small, frequent, affordable items that fit tight budgets. This is the behaviour of India’s value-conscious consumers, and Meesho has built its business around serving exactly that segment.In an interview with Bloomberg News, Chief Financial Officer Dhiresh Bansal said the company has been "very, very focused on affordability," and wants to offer the lowest possible prices in every category.Meesho's zero-commission model, where sellers are not charged platform fees, allows them to price aggressively. Many of these sellers are manufacturers, traders and wholesalers from Tier-2 and Tier-3 towns who produce unbranded or regional products.According to the Redseer Report, such regional and unbranded goods make up more than 75% of India’s overall retail market. Meesho’s marketplace structure helps bring these products online at scale.This focus on affordability and reach has made Meesho the fastest-growing major e-commerce player in the past two years. While India’s e-commerce shopper base grew 11–20% between FY23 and FY25, Meesho’s Annual Transacting Users grew about 46% in the same period.Its mix of low pricing, discovery-driven shopping, content-based recommendations and simple onboarding has appealed to millions of first-time internet buyers in the hinterland, many of them women. In FY25, women accounted for 54.22% of Meesho's customers. In the following twelve-month period, the figure remained above 53%.The company's seller ecosystem has scaled accordingly. Meesho had 449,966 annual transacting sellers in FY23. That number dipped slightly to 423,749 in FY 2024 but jumped to 513,757 in FY 2025. In the twelve months ending September 2025, it expanded further to 706,471 sellers.The average seller is also earning more: the NMV per annual transacting seller rose from Rs 427,429.78 in FY23 to Rs 548,463.42 in FY24 and to Rs 583,697.39 in FY25. Time to first order has dropped from 32 days in FY23 to 16 days in FY25, reflecting better product discovery and faster onboarding.Meesho's growth comes at a moment when India itself is experiencing a shift in consumption patterns. The country’s e-commerce market, currently valued at around Rs 6 lakh crore in gross merchandise value, is projected to grow to Rs 15–18 lakh crore by FY30.The majority of new shoppers will come from tier-2 and smaller cities, which could represent 51–52% of India’s entire e-commerce market by 2030, up from around 44% in FY25. Meesho is positioned at the centre of this structural change.The larger retail market, estimated at Rs 83 lakh crore in FY25, is expected to grow to as much as Rs 135 lakh crore by FY30. Meesho’s Serviceable Addressable Market within this, about Rs 33 trillion in FY25, is set to expand to Rs 51–56 lakh crore by 2030.These are categories that Indians outside metros buy every day: apparel, low-cost accessories, kitchenware, footwear, home goods and regional unbranded products. Apparel alone contributes 34% of Meesho's sales.Meesho will also rely on stronger infrastructure to sustain this scale. The company will use its IPO proceeds for acquisitions, boosting cloud infrastructure, building out artificial intelligence capabilities and spending on marketing.Despite rapid expansion, Meesho has kept expenses in check. Advertising and promotions have dropped from Rs 927.80 crore in FY23 to Rs 643.53 crore in FY25, shrinking from 12.26% of total expenses to 6.43%.The natural question is whether Amazon India and Flipkart have missed this hinterland wave. Public data suggests a more nuanced picture. Both platforms have said during major festival sales that a majority of their customers come from non-metro India.But outside such peak events, neither company regularly discloses a metro versus non-metro split of its overall orders or users. Analysts say their product mix, higher average order values and stronger dependence on branded goods naturally give them a more urban-heavy audience than Meesho.But they are chasing the same market, and Meesho acknowledges that Amazon and Flipkart are now targeting "some of their customers," even as value retailers like Vishal Mega Mart and Zudio add more competitive pressure.What sets Meesho apart is not that others ignored small-town India, but that Meesho built its entire business for that consumer from the start. Its low-cost model, inexpensive catalogue, discovery-led shopping and mass-market positioning have aligned perfectly with how small-town India shops online.: Recommendations, suggestions, views and opinions given by the experts are their own. These do not represent the views of Economic Times)
[Source link]: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/ipos/fpos/meesho-ipo-how-the-women-powered-platform-left-amazon-and-flipkart-chasing-discounts/articleshow/125686589.cms


[TITLE]‘Zootopia 2’ Stampedes To $158M 5-Day Opening, Still 2nd Best For Thanksgiving Release; $215M+ Promo Campaign Fueled By VW, McDonald’s, More – Monday AM Update:
[TEXT]
MONDAY AM: Disney’s Zootopia 2 wound up being an even bigger animal over the Thanksgiving stretch than imagined. We hear this morning that the 5-day has soared to $158M after a better-than-expected Sunday of $24.5M, 32% off the second-best Saturday over Thanksgiving, which was $35.8M. As we mentioned, that’s a similar percentile hold that Moana 2 had last year between its Saturday and Sunday. Zootopia 2‘s updated 3-day is $98.8M; global update is $559.5M.

As we digest the rags-to-riches nature of moviegoing and how prime the Thanksgiving and year-end holidays are, it constantly boils down to the type of movies that are on the marquee. Note that next Thanksgiving conceivably could be down from this year’s industry-estimated $299M for all movies over 5 days. Disney Animation has an original pic next year in Hexed, and those types of movies always are hard to launch unless there’s some sort of princess je ne sais quoi a la Frozen. Hexed reportedly follows a teenage oddball and his mom who discover his talent in hidden magic; they’re transported into a world where magic can run free. Also opening on Wednesday, November 25, 2026, is Universal’s comedy franchise fourthquel Focker in-Law, which if it works would be an anomaly for comedies in the post-Covid box office era. Leading into Thanksgiving will be the Lionsgate prequel The Hunger Games: Sunrise on the Reaping, which saw the studio’s second-biggest trailer launch ever with 109M global views in its first 24 hours. The previous Hunger Games prequel, The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes, opened to $44.6M in 2023 and did a 3.7x multiple for a final domestic of $166.3M.

RELATED: ‘Zootopia 2’ Review: Disney Sequel Herds Familiar Themes While Successfully Expanding Animated Animal World

Watch on Deadline

SUNDAY AM: It’s a great Thanksgiving of second-best records for Disney with Zootopia 2 and that’s nothing to complain about: The sequel posted the second highest grossing Saturday over Thanksgiving stretch of $35.8M, which is fueling the second-highest 5-day opening ever for the holiday of $156M. That’s also the second best opening ever for a Walt Disney Animation title. This is after the second-highest Wednesday, Thursday and Black Friday in recent days — all these records are filing behind last year’s Moana 2 (5-day of $225.4M).

Exclaimed Disney Entertainment Co-Chairman Alan Bergman this morning, “The incredible response to Zootopia 2 reflects both its worldwide appeal and the remarkable work of our filmmakers and cast. It’s a proud moment for Disney Animation and all of us at Disney, not to mention a great way to start the holiday season.”

Andrew Cripps, head of Disney Global Distribution, pointed out that Zootopia 2‘s success also “benefitted from the pent-up demand for animated movies from audiences.” There’s been few this past year, at least few that have worked.

Box Office state firm EntTelligence counted 12 million admissions for Zootopia 2 over 5-days. Moana 2 clocked 17.5M last year. The average ticket price was $14.42 while the average premium large format ticket price for the sequel was $18.

The conservative 5-day forecast on Zootopia 2 was $125M. There is room for upside with the sequel apt to gross $3M more than what we’re seeing currently. Interesting to note that the daily gross cadence for Zootopia 2 is very similar to Moana 2‘s on a percentile basis, i.e. Thanksgiving was down 50% from opening day Wednesday/previews, Black Friday was +96% over Thanksgiving, Saturday dipped -7% from Black Friday with Sunday being calculated at a -37% decline off yesterday (Note Moana 2 eased -31% on its first Sunday off Saturday).

Early industry estimates for the five-day weekend for all films is factored around $297M (that includes $4.25M from Netflix’s Wake Up Dead Man: A Knives Out Mystery), which among Thanksgiving 5-day hauls is third behind last year’s all-time record of $424.9M, and 2018’s $315.6M (that’s when Disney Animation sequel Ralph Breaks the Internet led with $84.7M). We’ll see what Comscore reports.

Disney arrived to this massive weekend with 11 promo partners who delivered over $215 million in media value that generated 3.7 billion-plus impressions and a retail footprint that spanned 100k+ locations. That promo campaign value outstrips that of Moana 2‘s $100M and Inside Out 2‘s. Zootopia 2‘s partners included:

Volkswagen (Oct 16 – Jan 31) – Yes, an animated movie had a car partner — which is not common. The team-up repped the biggest between Disney and VW to date, “Wolfswagen” blended real-world automotive branding with in-film animated vehicle integrations. A custom spot featured three Zootopified VW models (regionally adapted) with Gazelle’s “Zoo” single ran globally across theaters, TV, streaming, and social. There were also in-dealership activations in Germany, China, and France with wrapped cars and custom show vehicles at Guangzhou Motor Show.

McDonald’s (Nov 4 – Dec 1) – Fast food always delivers in a movie campaign, and after an auto partner can be the second most lucrative. An animated spot followed Judy and Nick to “Hoppy Meal.” Program rolled out across US (13.5k restaurants), Latin American, and China with eight collectible toys, in-restaurant POS, and in-app promotion.

Air Canada (Nov 6 – Dec 31) – There was Zootopia 2 livery on aircraft; in-flight screenings of original film; custom animated “Air Caribou” billboard in film.

Crocs (Nov 11 – Dec 6) served up a worldwide collection of fuzz-lined clogs, platform styles, themed Jibbitz; 980+ retail takeovers; influencer screenings; in-film logo placement.

served up a worldwide collection of fuzz-lined clogs, platform styles, themed Jibbitz; 980+ retail takeovers; influencer screenings; in-film logo placement. Del Monte (Oct 1 – Dec 31) – There were over 523M co-branded pineapple tags and banana stickers on fruit around the world with in-store signage, digital promotions with recipes; sweepstakes for five-night Dubai trip and tickets.

MINISO (Oct 10 – Dec 31) – There was a spot in 7k+ stores; themed pop-ups across 11 locations (US, Canada, Hong Kong, Singapore, Vietnam, India, Australia, Malaysia, Indonesia); custom animated storefronts in film.

Additional Partners included Kellogg’s Froot Loops (1,000 limited boxes with Funko/ticket bundle), Pure Life (3M+ bottles, studio lot sweepstakes), Govee (custom curtain lights, 2.6k+ Best Buy/Target locations), isima (Shakira’s haircare brand with Ulta exclusive and influencer activations).

The trailer drop on May 20 timed to the release of Lilo & Stitch indicated anticipation was there for Zootopia 2 with 130M views in first 24 hours and the final trailer on Sept 29 pulling in 74M views in its first day.

One of the cute exhibitor tie-ins entailed an immersive experience for the sequel at AMC Century City in LA with “The Moovies,” a floor-to-ceiling wrap with parody posters (Devil Wears Preyda 2, The Incredibulls 3, Toy Ssstory 5). Also getting a makeover for the movie was Disney’s own El Capitan in Hollywood renamed the “El Hopitan”. There were also12-foot bus displays at AMC Americana/Kips Bay; and touring statues across 12 theaters.

AMC Century City Deadline/A. D’Alessandro

AMC Dine-In in Disney Springs in Florida did $346K through EOD yesterday, the highest grossing location in the nation. Repeating the stat here: 21% came from premium large format and Imax (4% from Imax, 17% from PLFs with 12% from 3D).

Evident that the movie played “everywhere” can be seen in the EntTelligence breakdown: 38% of the foot traffic were in markets that ranged in population size from 1M to over 2.5M (high urban) versus 62% of admissions which were in cities of 500K or less. Rural and high rural areas (1K-500K) pulled in 36% admissions. Big matinee play, of course, with 60% of the audience watching Zootopia 2 before 5PM yesterday.

Universal’s Wicked: For Good is filing a second weekend of $62.8M (-57%), and a 5-day of $93M for a running cume of $270.4M.

Zootopia 2 (Dis) 4,000 theaters, Wed $39.5M, Thursday $19.7M Friday $38.5M Sat $35.8M Sun $22.5M 3-day $96.8M, 5-day $156M/Wk 1

Third highest 3-day domestic opening for Walt Disney Animation movie behind Moana 2 and Frozen 2. Wicked: For Good (Uni) 4,115 theaters, Wed. $17.4M, Thursday $12.57M Fri $26M Sat $21.6M Sun $15M 3-day $62.8M (-57%), 5-day $93M, Total $270.4M/Wk 2 Now You See Me: Now You Don’t (LG) 3,092 (-311) theatres, Wed $1.42M, Thu $1.67M Fri $2.6M Sat $2.7M Sun $1.6M 3-day $7M (-22%) 5-day $10M, Total $49.6M/Wk 3

Predator: Badlands (Dis) 2,750 theaters, Wed $900K, Thu $925K Fri $1.8M Sat $1.9M Sun $1.1M 3-day $4.8M (-26%), 5-day $6.6M/Total $85M/Wk 4

As we told you earlier, this is now the highest grossing Predator in the franchise at the domestic B.O. besting 2004’s Alien vs. Predator‘s $80.2M. Disney last weekend called Badlands the highest grossing overall in the franchise in a like-for-like currency comparison, however, at $173M global currently, the Dan Trachtenberg directed movie still has $4M left to go to beat the recorded final global gross of Alien vs. Predator at $177.4M.

Elle Fanning and Dimitrius Schuster-Koloamatangi in ‘Predator: Badlands’ Disney

5. Running Man (Par) 2,749 (-297) theaters, Wed $840K Thu $980K Fri $1.4M Sat $1.45M Sun $850K 3-day $3.7M (-35%), 5-day $5.5M, Total $34.2M/ Wk 3

6. Eternity (A24) 1,348 theaters, Wed $1.45M (includes previews), Thu $616K Fri $1.1M Sat $1.2M Sun $826K 3 day $3.16M, 5 day $5.2M/Wk 1

The Elizabeth Olsen, Callum Turner and Miles Teller romcom which cost around $15M before P&A is being comped to A24’s Priscilla which did $5M over 3 days at a similar number of theaters. An expansion is expected. Priscilla, which was a dreamy bio-drama, grossed just under $21M at the domestic B.O.

7. Wake Up Dead Man (Netflix) 600 theaters, Wed $600K, Thu $400K Fri $600K Sat $400K 5-day $4.25M/Wk 1

Dailies are for only those theaters reporting. Sources tell us the 5-day is $4M. More on that later.

8. Rental Family (Sea) 1,925 theaters, Wednesday $400K, Thu $575K Fri $800K Sat $800K Sun $500K 3-day $2.1M (-36%), 5-day $3M, Total $7.39M/Wk 2

9. Hamnet (Foc) 119 theaters Wed $310K, Thu $160K Fri $310K Sat $350K Sun $220K 3-day $880K, 5-day $1.35M/5-day per theater $11,3K (third best of the weekend behind Zootopia 2‘s $39K per theater and Wicked 2‘s $22,6K theater average/Wk 1

10. Sisu: Road to Revenge (Sony) 2,222 theaters Wed $200K, Thu $205K Fri $290K Sat $310K Sun 3-day $810K (-66%), 5-day $1.2M, Total $4.1M/Wk 2

SATURDAY AM, updated with new data: Consumers didn’t just go to stores yesterday, they went to the movies, too, shelling out $38.5M to see Disney’s Zootopia 2, the second best Black Friday at the box office after last year’s Moana 2 ($54.3M), as well as Universal’s Wicked: For Good which did $26M. For the Cynthia Erivo-Ariana Grande sequel that’s it’s fourth highest grossing day after its opening weekend sequence of Friday ($69.1M), Saturday ($43.4M) and Sunday ($34.4M).

And talk
[Source link]: http://deadline.com/2025/12/zootopia-2-wicked-for-good-tuesday-box-office-1236629566/


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: amazon
symbol: AMZN
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1764724893
name: amazon
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: disney
symbol: DIS
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1764724895
name: disney
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: flipkart
name: flipkart
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: meesho
name: meesho
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

[TITLE]Tutor Raises $34 Million to Teach Warehouse Robots:
[TEXT]
Tutor Intelligence, which makes AI-powered robots for warehouse work, has raised $34 million in new funding.

By completing this form, you agree to receive marketing communications from PYMNTS and to the sharing of your information with our sponsor, if applicable, in accordance with our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions .

Complete the form to unlock this article and enjoy unlimited free access to all PYMNTS content — no additional logins required.

The company will use the new capital to speed commercialization of its robots, scale its consumer packaged goods (CPG) fleet and advance its central robot intelligence platform and research infrastructure, according to a Monday (Dec. 1) news release.

“Tutor stands out for its extraordinary speed of execution and its ability to balance cutting-edge product and model development with a clear commercial focus that quickly gets this functionality into customers’ hands,” Rebecca Kaden, managing partner at Union Square Ventures, which led the funding round, said in the release. “They’re not building for an abstract future; they’re transforming how CPG companies operate today.”

Founded out of MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL), Tutor Intelligence’s robots work alongside human operators to process goods for a “vast Fortune 50 supply chain network,” the company said in the release. It also works with multiple Fortune 500 packaged food companies, and “global leaders” in the personal care, toys, home goods, beauty and consumer technology spaces.

“When we started Tutor Intelligence nearly five years ago as grad students at MIT, we saw that the robotics intelligence bottleneck was the key barrier to robotic worker viability,” said Josh Gruenstein, the company’s co-founder and CEO.

“We built a system that leverages on-the-job data to teach robots to navigate and understand the physical world with human-like intuition. This new capital enables us to expand our fleet, scale our robot training infrastructure, and empower our robots to tackle increasingly complex tasks, reshaping industrial work as we know it.”

Advertisement: Scroll to Continue

The funding comes at a time when, as covered here last month, physical artificial intelligence (AI) is emerging as the next stage of robotics. Earlier robots followed fixed commands and worked only in predictable environments, having trouble with the unpredictability found in everyday operations such as shifting layouts, mixed lighting, and human movement.

“That is beginning to change as research groups show how simulation, digital twins and multimodal learning pipelines enable robots to learn adaptive behaviors and carry those behaviors into real facilities with minimal retraining,” PYMNTS wrote.

Amazon’s launch of its Vulcan robot is one of the clearest examples of physical AI moving from research to frontline operations. This robot uses both vision and touch to pick and stow items in the company’s fulfillment centers, letting it handle flexible fabric storage pods and unpredictable product shapes.
[Source link]: https://www.pymnts.com/news/investment-tracker/2025/tutor-raises-34-million-to-teach-warehouse-robots/


[TITLE]Sports Nutrition Market is Projected to Surpass US$ 27.2 Billion by 2033 | Astute Analytica:
[TEXT]
Chicago, Dec. 01, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The global sports nutrition market was valued at US$ 17.8 billion in 2024 and is expected to reach US$ 27.2 billion by 2033, growing at a CAGR of 4.8% over the forecast period of 2025 to 2033.

The sports nutrition market has historically been viewed through the lens of discretionary consumer spending—a cyclical market tethered to gym memberships and New Year’s resolutions. As we navigate late 2025, this assessment is obsolete. The market has decoupled from pure recreation and integrated itself into the essential healthcare and longevity infrastructure.

We are witnessing a fundamental re-rating of the sector's valuation multiples. This is driven by the transition of protein and performance supplements from "lifestyle accessories" to "biological necessities," catalyzed largely by the pharmaceutical weight loss revolution and the demographic inevitability of an aging population.

Request Sample Pages: https://www.astuteanalytica.com/request-sample/sports-nutrition-market

For private equity, strategic acquirers, and brand operators, the days of competing on flavor variants of commoditized whey concentrate are over. The liquidity events of the next 36 months will be defined by efficacy data, bioavailability enhancement, and specific physiological problem-solving.

Key Findings in Sports Nutrition Market

Market Forecast (2033) US$ 27.2 billion CAGR 4.8% Largest Region (2024) North America (44.20%) By Product Type Protein Powder (24.80%) By Application Post-Workout Nutritional Supplements (60.80%) By Distribution Offline (60.90%) By End Users Fitness Enthusiasts (40%) Top Drivers GLP-1 companion products addressing muscle loss in weight management patients.

Holistic active lifestyle adoption among aging and female demographics.

Integration of wearable technology data into personalized nutrition purchasing. Top Trends Clear whey isolates replacing traditional milky protein shake textures.

Hybrid recovery beverages combining clinical hydration with anti-inflammatory ingredients.

Retailers merging digital native brands into physical shelf spaces. Top Challenges Ingredient supply chain volatility impacting whey and creatine availability.

Sophisticated counterfeit products eroding consumer trust in online marketplaces.

Strict labeling compliance audits regarding clean label claim verification.

Capitalizing on the Catabolic Crisis of the Weight Loss Drug Boom in Sports Nutrition Market

The dominance of GLP-1 agonists (semaglutide, tirzepatide) has created the single most immediate arbitrage opportunity in modern nutrition history. While the general food and beverage sector fears volume contraction due to appetite suppression, the sports nutrition sector is staring at a massive retention funnel.

The clinical reality of these drugs is indiscriminate weight loss. Without intervention, up to 40% of the weight lost by patients is lean muscle mass. This creates a condition of "sarcopenic obesity"—a metabolic disaster that leaves the patient lighter but metabolically slower and frailer.

Sports Nutrition Market Opportunity here is Not Generic Protein; It Is High-Density Muscle Preservation Protocols.

Consumers on these regimens are physically incapable of consuming high-volume calories. The 2025 winner is the brand that delivers 30 grams of high-leucine protein in less than 150ml of fluid volume. Astute Analytica’s analysis found that the market is seeing a surge in "medical-grade" sports nutrition products that bypass the "fitness" aisle and sit directly adjacent to the pharmacy counter.

The unit economics of this sub-sector are superior to traditional sports nutrition. The "GLP-1 User" has a higher lifetime value (LTV) and lower churn than the "Casual Gym Goer" because their consumption is compliance-driven, not motivation-driven. They must consume high-quality protein to prevent hair loss and muscle wasting. Brands in the sports nutrition market that have pivoted to "GLP-1 Support" messaging—focusing on nutrient density, hydration retention, and muscle sparing—are seeing customer acquisition costs (CAC) drop by 30% compared to general hypertrophy messaging.

Expanding TAM via Texture Innovation and Clear Protein Technologies

The Total Addressable Market (TAM) for protein has historically been capped by sensory fatigue. The thick, milky, dessert-profile organoleptic properties of traditional whey and casein alienate a vast segment of consumers who desire refreshment rather than a meal replacement.

Clear Whey Hydrolysates have effectively uncapped this TAM in the sports nutrition market. By utilizing acidification processes and membrane filtration to remove glycomacropeptides and lipids, manufacturers have created a macronutrient profile that behaves like an electrolyte beverage.

The strategic implication is the "Share of Throat" expansion. A consumer will rarely drink a chocolate protein shake with lunch or during a hot afternoon commute. However, they will consume a "Lemon-Lime Protein Water." This creates new consumption occasions that did not exist three years ago.

In Q3 2025, retail scan data suggests that clear protein formats are driving 65% of the incremental growth in the powder category. This is a technology-driven moat. The manufacturing complexity of clear whey (preventing turbidity and astringency) acts as a barrier to entry for low-tier white-label brands, allowing sophisticated manufacturers to protect margin integrity in an otherwise commoditized ingredient market.

Exploiting the Underserved Female Physiology Through Phasic Product Design in Sports Nutrition Market

The "Pink Tax" strategy—repackaging male formulas in pastel containers—is now a fast track to irrelevance. The sophisticated female consumer of 2025 demands Phasic Nutrition Architectures.

The alpha lies in addressing the metabolic distinctiveness of the menstrual cycle. During the luteal phase (the high-hormone phase pre-menstruation), female physiology experiences a core temperature rise, increased metabolic rate, and a shift in substrate utilization toward fat, with a simultaneous increase in protein catabolism.

Brands like Levelle and new entrants from the Whoop ecosystem are capitalizing on this by offering "Cycle-Synced" systems.

Follicular SKUs: Focus on higher carbohydrate tolerance and maximizing peak power output.

Focus on higher carbohydrate tolerance and maximizing peak power output. Luteal SKUs: Focus on hydration (counteracting fluid retention), higher protein dosing (counteracting catabolism), and magnesium/zinc fortification.

This creates a High-Fidelity Recurring Revenue Model across the sports nutrition market. Unlike a generic tub of protein which is bought sporadically, a phasic system is a subscription necessity that aligns with the user’s biological clock. The retention metrics for cycle-synced nutrition brands are currently outperforming the broader market by a factor of 2.5x.

Monetizing the Gut Muscle Axis and Absorption Multipliers

For two decades, the sports nutrition market focused on what is in the scoop. The next frontier is focusing on what ends up in the blood. With raw material prices for whey and premium plant isolates remaining volatile, the most efficient way to increase margin is not to add more protein, but to increase the utilization rate of the existing protein.

We are seeing the rapid commercialization of the Gut-Muscle Axis. This involves the inclusion of specific probiotic strains (such as Bacillus coagulans) and absorption enhancers (like AstraGin or Velositol) that are clinically proven to increase amino acid uptake by 20-30%. This is a critical "Premiumization Lever." In a market where 25g of protein is the standard, the brand that guarantees "Maximum Nitrogen Retention" via a synbiotic matrix can command a 40% price premium over the commodity competitor in the sports nutrition market.

The segment addresses the widespread consumer issue of "protein bloat." By pre-digesting proteins via enzymatic inclusion and supporting the microbiome, brands are solving the primary pain point of high-protein diets. This is particularly relevant for the plant-based sector, where lower bioavailability has historically been the Achilles heel. Fermentation-derived boosters are effectively closing the efficacy gap between pea protein and whey, allowing plant-based brands to finally compete on performance metrics rather than just ethical ones.

Securing the Silver Economy with Sarcopenia Defense Formulations

The most capital-rich demographic in the sports nutrition market is the over-60 segment. Historically, sports nutrition ignored them. In 2025, this is the fastest-growing revenue vertical.

We are moving beyond "Ensure" and "Boost." The aging population is now "Active Aging." They are playing pickleball, cycling, and resistance training to stave off frailty. Their primary adversary is Sarcopenia—the age-related loss of skeletal muscle mass and function.

The product requirements for this demographic are distinct:

Anabolic Resistance: Older muscle requires higher doses of Leucine to trigger muscle protein synthesis (MPS) compared to a 20-year-old. Joint-Muscle Hybridization: Formulations that combine hydrolyzed collagen with whey isolate are seeing massive uptake.

This is a High-Yield Medical-Adjacent Market. Brands that position their products as "Longevity Insurance" rather than "Bodybuilding Supplements" are tapping into discretionary healthcare spending. The packaging is clinical, the claims are verified, and the price sensitivity is low. The "Silver Athlete" is not looking for a discount; they are looking for mobility preservation.

Winning the Cold Chain War and the Premiumization of Ready to Drink Formats

The era of the shaker bottle is declining in the sports nutrition market. The most explosive value creation is happening in the Ready-to-Drink (RTD) cold chain. Historically, RTD protein was shelf-stable, chalky, and sold in the center aisle. The shift in 2025 is toward the "Cold Vault." Consumers are treating protein beverages like cold-pressed juices or kombucha. They demand fresh, clean-label, cold-chain distributed products. This presents a massive barrier to entry known as the Distribution Moat. Unlike powder, which can be shipped DTC via standard logistics, cold-chain RTD requires access to refrigerated distribution networks (DSD). This is forcing a consolidation wave where major beverage conglomerates (Keurig Dr Pepper, PepsiCo) are acquiring emerging sports nutrition brands simply to plug them into their cold trucks.

For the independent brand in the sports nutrition market, the "Cold Chain War" is a capital-intensive battleground, but the rewards are immediate consumption and impulse purchasing. The data shows that the velocity of cold RTD protein is 4x that of shelf-stable counterparts. The consumer is willing to pay $5.00 for a single chilled bottle that tastes like a milkshake, versus $2.50 for a warm, shelf-stable carton. This premiumization drives margin expansion. The transition to "functional beverages" allows sports nutrition to cannibalize the energy drink and soda markets. We are seeing "Energy + Protein" and "Coffee + Protein" hybrids taking shelf space from traditional incumbents.

Strategic Outlook and Stakeholder Action Matrix

The sports nutrition market of late 2025 is defined by Specialization and Efficacy. The middle market is dead. The successful brands are those that identify a specific metabolic friction point—whether it's GLP-1 induced muscle loss, menopausal metabolic shifts, or age-related sarcopenia—and solve it with clinical precision.

Investment Theses for Stakeholders:

Short GLP-1 Volatility, Long Protein Demand: Bet on the products that solve the side effects of the weight loss drugs. Bioavailability is the New Quality Standard: Marketing protein content is insufficient; marketing absorption rates is the future. The Female Dollar is the Highest Growth Asset: Invest in brands that have proprietary data on female physiology, not just pink packaging. Cold Chain is King: In the RTD space, logistics and distribution capabilities are more valuable than brand equity alone.

The sports nutrition market has matured. It is no longer
[Source link]: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/12/01/3197212/0/en/Sports-Nutrition-Market-is-Projected-to-Surpass-US-27-2-Billion-by-2033-Astute-Analytica.html


[TITLE]Dressing and Sauces Market Estimated to Reach US$ 205.9 Billion by 2033 | Astute Analytica:
[TEXT]
Chicago, Dec. 01, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The global dressing and sauces
[Source link]: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/12/01/3197130/0/en/Dressing-and-Sauces-Market-Estimated-to-Reach-US-205-9-Billion-by-2033-Astute-Analytica.html


[TITLE]Precision Fermentation Market Trends, Opportunities, and Forecasts, 2020-2024 & 2025-2030 - Market is Expanding Beyond Food and Beverage Into Pharmaceuticals, Cosmetics, and Industrial Enzymes:
[TEXT]
Dublin, Dec. 01, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The "Precision Fermentation Market - Global Industry Size, Share, Trends, Opportunity, and Forecast, 2020-2030F" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.

The Global Precision Fermentation Market, valued at USD 589.46 Million in 2024, is projected to experience a CAGR of 33.10% to reach USD 3.27 billion by 2030.

Precision fermentation is a biotechnological method that employs genetically modified microorganisms to produce specific functional ingredients, such as proteins, enzymes, or fats, under controlled conditions.

This market's growth is primarily driven by the escalating global demand for sustainable and animal-free protein sources, alongside a strong industry focus on environmental and resource efficiency aimed at reducing the ecological footprint associated with traditional production methods. Furthermore, continuous advancements in genetic engineering, synthetic biology, and bioprocess automation are enhancing microbial yields and overall production efficiency, rendering these processes more commercially viable.

Key Market Drivers

The global precision fermentation market is significantly influenced by the escalating demand for sustainable and ethical products. Consumers are increasingly seeking food options that align with environmental consciousness and animal welfare concerns, driving a notable shift in dietary preferences.

This growing awareness fosters a fertile ground for the adoption of precision fermentation-derived ingredients, which offer a viable pathway to reduce the ecological footprint associated with conventional animal agriculture. For example, according to World Population Review, in 2024, India recorded the highest percentage of vegans at 9% of its population, indicating a substantial demographic committed to animal-free consumption choices that precision fermentation can address. This fundamental shift in consumer values underscores a persistent market pull for innovative, responsibly produced alternatives.

Key Market Challenges

A significant challenge impeding the growth of the Global Precision Fermentation Market is the complex process of scaling up production from laboratory research to industrial capacity while simultaneously achieving cost efficiency. This involves substantial capital expenditure for constructing and operating large-scale precision fermentation facilities, which require significant investment in fermentation infrastructure and specialized downstream processing equipment. Replicating the meticulously controlled laboratory conditions at an industrial scale proves highly complex, often affecting microbial yields and product consistency, which directly impacts the commercial viability and affordability of products.

Key Market Trends

The precision fermentation market is expanding its applications beyond traditional food and beverage products into sectors such as pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, and industrial enzymes. This diversification significantly broadens the market's scope and creates new revenue streams. For instance, according to Ginkgo Bioworks, April 3, 2024, Prozomix and Ginkgo Bioworks collaborated on next-generation enzyme development for active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturing. This demonstrates the technology's utility in high-value non-food segments by producing specific molecules for various industrial processes.

Key Attributes:

Report Attribute Details No. of Pages 180 Forecast Period 2024 - 2030 Estimated Market Value (USD) in 2024 $589.46 Million Forecasted Market Value (USD) by 2030 $3270 Million Compound Annual Growth Rate 33.1% Regions Covered Global

Report Scope:

Key Market Players Profiled:

New Culture Inc

Perfect Day, Inc

Triton Algae Innovations

Change Foods, Inc

Remilk Ltd.

Impossible Foods Inc.

Motif FoodWorks, Inc

Formo Bio Gmbh

The Every Company

Geltor, Inc

By Ingredient Produced:

Whey & Casein Protein

Egg White

Collagen Protein

Heme Protein

Others

By Microbes:

Yeast

Algae

Bacteria

Others

By End User:

Food & Beverage

Pharmaceutical

Cosmetic

Others

By Region:

North America

Europe

Asia-Pacific

South America

Middle East & Africa
[Source link]: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/12/01/3197123/28124/en/Precision-Fermentation-Market-Trends-Opportunities-and-Forecasts-2020-2024-2025-2030-Market-is-Expanding-Beyond-Food-and-Beverage-Into-Pharmaceuticals-Cosmetics-and-Industrial-Enzy.html


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: astute analytica
name: astute analytica
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: tutor intelligence
name: tutor intelligence
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

[TITLE]The $50 billion burgeoning sector betting on your nostalgia for classic American brands:
[TEXT]
Also under the ABG umbrella are investments in the name, image, and likeness rights of various boldface names, including soccer superstar David Beckham and basketball great Shaquille O’Neal. ABG also owns the names and likenesses of long-deceased icons including Elvis Presley, Marilyn Monroe, and Muhammad Ali.

The cherished American retail names now owned by these companies make a long list: WHP owns Toys “R” Us and Babies “R” Us, Anne Klein, Express, Bonobos, and Rag & Bone. Marquee owns the revamped Martha Stewart brand, BCBG, Laura Ashley, and Isotoner. ABG, the largest player in this space, owns a vast empire of more than 50 brands, including Eddie Bauer, Champion, and Reebok.

Dockers followed a well-trodden path, and one that many iconic brands have taken in recent years. Brand management companies including ABG, WHP Global, and Marquee Brands have assembled portfolios that include dozens of household-name brands. These companies have emerged as the new power brokers in fashion and retail, raking in some $50 billion in sales globally each year.

The Dockers pocket predicament—which some dismiss as an imagined problem—predates ABG’s ownership. But it shows the peril of a 1.5-inch difference—that razor’s edge between a loyal customer and one who abandons a product or company. Even the most beloved brands can become vulnerable following perceived changes or quality erosion that upset passionate consumers—and when heritage brands are purchased by holding companies like ABG, which seek to optimize and grow the brands globally, that passion can be a double-edged sword.

Levi Strauss is actually no longer the parent company of Dockers; in May it sold the label to brand ownership giant Authentic Brands Group (ABG) for an initial value of $311 million, with the potential to reach $391 million based on performance under Authentic’s ownership. (ABG declined to comment on the Dockers brand or its pocket measurements.)

By IwearPants’ measurement, the pockets on his new Dockers are 1.5 inches less deep than his old pair. And he made a plea: “If Dockers (or parent Levi Strauss) needs to raise the price by a couple of bucks per pair, so be it. Just give me back deep pants pockets on my Dockers.”

“My change and keys fall out sitting,” posted Robert C.
[Source link]: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/50-billion-burgeoning-sector-betting-132513178.html


[TITLE]From Martha Stewart to Dockers to Toys “R” Us, brand managers are raking in billions betting on classic American names:
[TEXT]
A mystery has been roiling longtime wearers of Dockers’ ubiquitous khaki men’s pants: Why are things dropping out of people’s pockets when they sit down?

“My change and keys fall out sitting,” posted Robert C.
[Source link]: https://fortune.com/2025/11/30/brand-management-martha-stewart-dockers-brooks-brothers/


[Failed to load article at https://www.thestreet.com/retail/popular-tj-maxx-rival-stumbles-as-customer-trends-shift]


[TITLE]India Global Forum Announces First-of-its-Kind $250 Million Fund to Take Indian Brands Global:
[TEXT]
The $250 million fund will support high-potential Indian brands to expand globally, leveraging Dubai’s connectivity with India Global Forum’s powerful ecosystem.

DUBAI, UAE and NEW DELHI, Nov. 27, 2025 /PRNewswire/ -- India Global Forum (IGF) today announced a first-of-its-kind $250 million fund dedicated to helping India’s most ambitious consumer and industrial brands expand into global markets. Anchored by Ved Family Office and Ananta Capital, the fund was unveiled at IGF Middle East 2025: NXT Frontiers in Dubai in the presence of senior business leaders, policymakers and innovators shaping the future of the India–UAE corridor.

The new fund will combine growth capital, world-class logistics and market access, and IGF’s powerful convening and networks. Through a dedicated Accelerator Programme, Indian companies will be supported to scale into key international markets across the Middle East, Africa, Europe and beyond.

Unveiling the initiative at the fifth edition of IGF’s Dubai forum, Manoj Ladwa, Founder & Chairman, India Global Forum, said: “India is producing brands that are ready for the world, and Dubai is the natural launchpad for their global ambitions. Through this $250 million fund, we are unlocking a new era of opportunity, where Indian entrepreneurship meets world-class infrastructure, global capital and international demand.”

The programme brings together IGF’s unparalleled networks across business, government and innovation with Dubai’s logistics ecosystem through DP World. Participating companies will gain access to tailored market-entry support as well as curated introductions to investors, partners and potential customers.

The fund and accelerator will focus on high-potential Indian companies across sectors including food & beverage, consumer brands, chemicals, automotive, advanced manufacturing and industrial products. IGF will work closely with partners to identify companies with strong brands, global scalability and a compelling value proposition for international markets.

Reflecting on the significance of this moment for India–UAE business ties, Nilesh Ved, Chairman, Ved Family Office and Apparel Group, commented: “The UAE has long been a bridge between India and global markets. As anchor investors in this fund, we see a tremendous opportunity to back the next generation of Indian brands that can go global from Dubai. This initiative will give founders the confidence, capability and connectivity they need to scale internationally.”

Ashutosh Taparia, Founder & Managing Partner, Ananta Capital, added: “India is at an inflection point where homegrown brands are ready to compete and win globally. By anchoring this fund, we aim to provide patient, strategic capital and partner with entrepreneurs who are building durable, category-defining businesses.”

Speaking at the launch, Abdulla Al Hashmi, COO Parks & Zones, DP World GCC, said: “We welcome initiatives that empower Indian businesses to scale globally through the UAE. With one of the most advanced trade ecosystems in the world, Indian businesses can use Dubai’s connectivity to reach more than 3 billion consumers in fast-growing regional markets.”

The Accelerator Programme marks a major step forward in strengthening the economic partnership between India and the UAE. It offers founders access to global infrastructure, world-class logistics, curated networks and strategic capital — all under one integrated platform designed to take Indian brands global.

IGF Middle East 2025: NXT Frontiers convened 90 senior leaders from government, global corporations, venture capital, advanced technology, academia and next-generation enterprises to explore how India’s rapid digital and economic transformation can complement Gulf capital and innovation ecosystems to unlock growth across nine frontier themes: Capital, Deep Technology, Intelligence, Consumer Capital, Experience, Resilience, Healthspan, Ambition and Inclusion. Through roundtables, plenaries, fireside dialogues and curated networking, participants examined the opportunities and challenges reshaping the global economy amid geopolitical disruption and rapid digitalisation.

About India Global Forum

India Global Forum tells the story of contemporary India. The pace of change and growth India has set itself is an opportunity for the world. IGF is the gateway for businesses and nations to help seize that opportunity. To know more, click here

Social Media Handles & Hashtag to Follow

Twitter: @IGFUpdates & @manojladwa

LinkedIn: India Global Forum

For Media Enquiries Contact: aarti.subramaniam@indiaglobalforum.com

“This article is part of the sponsored content programme.”

Published on November 27, 2025
[Source link]: https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/brandhub/india-global-forum-announces-first-of-its-kind-250-million-fund-to-take-indian-brands-global/article70329614.ece


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: dockers
name: dockers
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: indian brands
name: indian brands
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: martha stewart
name: martha stewart
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: tjmaxx
name: tjmaxx
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

[TITLE]The $50 billion burgeoning sector betting on your nostalgia for classic American brands:
[TEXT]
Also under the ABG umbrella are investments in the name, image, and likeness rights of various boldface names, including soccer superstar David Beckham and basketball great Shaquille O’Neal. ABG also owns the names and likenesses of long-deceased icons including Elvis Presley, Marilyn Monroe, and Muhammad Ali.

The cherished American retail names now owned by these companies make a long list: WHP owns Toys “R” Us and Babies “R” Us, Anne Klein, Express, Bonobos, and Rag & Bone. Marquee owns the revamped Martha Stewart brand, BCBG, Laura Ashley, and Isotoner. ABG, the largest player in this space, owns a vast empire of more than 50 brands, including Eddie Bauer, Champion, and Reebok.

Dockers followed a well-trodden path, and one that many iconic brands have taken in recent years. Brand management companies including ABG, WHP Global, and Marquee Brands have assembled portfolios that include dozens of household-name brands. These companies have emerged as the new power brokers in fashion and retail, raking in some $50 billion in sales globally each year.

The Dockers pocket predicament—which some dismiss as an imagined problem—predates ABG’s ownership. But it shows the peril of a 1.5-inch difference—that razor’s edge between a loyal customer and one who abandons a product or company. Even the most beloved brands can become vulnerable following perceived changes or quality erosion that upset passionate consumers—and when heritage brands are purchased by holding companies like ABG, which seek to optimize and grow the brands globally, that passion can be a double-edged sword.

Levi Strauss is actually no longer the parent company of Dockers; in May it sold the label to brand ownership giant Authentic Brands Group (ABG) for an initial value of $311 million, with the potential to reach $391 million based on performance under Authentic’s ownership. (ABG declined to comment on the Dockers brand or its pocket measurements.)

By IwearPants’ measurement, the pockets on his new Dockers are 1.5 inches less deep than his old pair. And he made a plea: “If Dockers (or parent Levi Strauss) needs to raise the price by a couple of bucks per pair, so be it. Just give me back deep pants pockets on my Dockers.”

“My change and keys fall out sitting,” posted Robert C.
[Source link]: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/50-billion-burgeoning-sector-betting-132513178.html


[TITLE]SoftBank-backed Meesho set to seek up to $605 million via IPO:
[TEXT]
Synopsis

Indian e-commerce firm Meesho, known for its low-priced offerings, is set to raise $606 million through an IPO to expand into smaller towns. The SoftBank-backed company, which thrives on affordability and a vast network of small sellers, aims to capture more thrifty spenders across the country, challenging established players like Amazon and Flipkart.
[Source link]: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/tech/startups/softbank-backed-meesho-set-to-seek-up-to-605-million-via-ipo/articleshow/125657031.cms


[TITLE]SoftBank stays in as Meesho $606M IPO becomes India’s first major e-commerce listing:
[TEXT]
Meesho, an Indian e-commerce rival to Amazon and Walmart-owned Flipkart, is set to launch a roughly $606 million IPO marked by token sell-downs from early backers and no sales from big names such as SoftBank and Prosus, signaling investor conviction in India’s booming online retail market at a time when tech shareholders globally have been cashing out at listings.

The 10-year-old startup plans to price its shares at ₹105 to ₹111 each, raising ₹42.50 billion (
[Source link]: https://techcrunch.com/2025/11/28/softbank-stays-in-as-meesho-606m-ipo-becomes-indias-first-major-e-commerce-listing/


[TITLE]Fitell Corporation Announces $3 Million Share Repurchase Program:
[TEXT]
Taren Point, Australia, Dec. 01, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Fitell Corporation (NASDAQ: FTEL) (“Fitell” or the “Company”) an online retailer of gym and fitness equipment in Australia, today announced that its board of directors (the “Board”) has approved a share repurchase program (the “Share Repurchase Program”) under which the Company may repurchase up to $3 million of its ordinary shares over the next 24 months. The Share Repurchase Program is designed to enhance shareholder value and foster a stronger sense of community among our supporters.

Share Repurchase Program

With a positive outlook on our growth trajectory, the Board has approved the Share Repurchase Program of up to US$3,000,000.00 of our outstanding Class A ordinary shares over the next 24 months.

Under the program, Fitell may repurchase shares from time to time through open market purchases, block trades, or other means, in compliance with Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The actual timing, volume, and execution of repurchases will be at the discretion of management and will depend on factors such as share price, market conditions, regulatory requirements, and the Company’s capital position and liquidity needs;

Repurchases under the program are expected to be funded using the Company’s existing cash and future operating cash flows.

All shares repurchased will be held as treasury stock or cancelled.

The Share Repurchase Program does not obligate the Company to acquire any particular number of shares and may be adjusted or terminated at any time depending on market conditions and other corporate considerations.

The program is effective immediately and may be modified, suspended, or terminated at any time.

“Following our FY25 results, we believe the current market valuation does not fully reflect Fitell’s operational progress and opportunities across our fitness operations and 2F Robotics,” said Sam Lu, CEO of Fitell Corporation. “We believe our balance sheet has strengthened and that now is an appropriate time to begin returning value to shareholders. The share repurchase program provides flexibility within our corporate treasury management framework as we continue to advance the Company’s long-term vision.”

Fitell Corporation remains focused on its near-term strategic goals, including our e-commerce operations, AI-driven robotics development, and digital asset treasury management.

The Company is furnishing a Form 6-K to the SEC concurrently with the
[Source link]: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/12/01/3197007/0/en/Fitell-Corporation-Announces-3-Million-Share-Repurchase-Program.html


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: fitell
symbol: FTEL
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1764724906
name: fitell
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: meesho
name: meesho
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: puma
symbol: PUM.DE
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1764724906
name: puma
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: saga communications
symbol: SGA
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1764724908
name: saga communications
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

