[TITLE]European Energy signs solar park operations agreement with Heartland:
[TEXT]
European Energy has entered into a solar park operations agreement with Heartland, assuming responsibility for Gedmose solar park near Holstebro, Denmark, from January 2026.

This move marks the first time European Energy will operate a solar park it has not developed or owned, expanding…

This story appeared on finance.yahoo.com , 2025-11-18 12:00:18.
[Source link]: https://biztoc.com/x/214002c9b2152ba1


[TITLE]European Energy signs solar park operations agreement with Heartland:
[TEXT]
European Energy currently manages operations and engages in asset management for 4GW of renewable energy capacity. Credit: European Energy.

European Energy has entered into a solar park operations agreement with Heartland, assuming responsibility for Gedmose solar park near Holstebro, Denmark, from January 2026.

This move marks the first time European Energy will operate a solar park it has not developed or owned, expanding its portfolio of operational activities within renewable energy.

The Gedmose solar park, owned by Heartland, was connected to the grid in 2021 and was Northern Europe’s largest at the time, with a capacity of 207MW.

Situated just outside Holstebro, the facility generates enough electricity to supply more than 50,000 households annually.

Under the new agreement, European Energy will further diversify its operational services.

The company currently is engaged in operational and asset management for 4GW of renewable energy capacity.

GlobalData Strategic Intelligence US Tariffs are shifting - will you react or anticipate? Don’t let policy changes catch you off guard. Stay proactive with real-time data and expert analysis. By GlobalData Learn more about Strategic Intelligence

Electricity produced by the Gedmose solar park is sold to BESTSELLER, Normal, Nemlig.com, and Faerch under a power purchase agreement.

Heartland communications head Kasper Reggelsen said: “Gedmose solar park was established as part of our ambition to invest responsibly and with a long-term perspective in the green transition.

“In recent years, we have been reminded of the importance of a robust energy infrastructure that benefits everyone. We are pleased to gain a skilled partner to handle the day-to-day operations and ensure that the park continues to contribute efficiently to Denmark’s energy supply.”

European Energy plans to further expand its asset management and operations activities both in Denmark and across international markets.

European Energy asset management and operations EVP Jacob Saust Jacobsen said: “A key part of our strategic shift in asset management has been to offer our services to third-party owners – not only to the parks we develop ourselves.

“In recent years, we have also developed new technological solutions that enable us to optimise electricity production at a lower cost. Our ambition is for asset management to become a significant revenue driver for the company, and this agreement marks an important step forward in that direction.

“We therefore look forward to taking over the operations of Gedmose solar park and providing the owners with a stable and efficient partner.”

Last month, European Energy agreed to sell a 50% stake in its Saldus project in Latvia to Sampension, a Danish pension fund.
[Source link]: https://www.power-technology.com/news/european-energy-operations-agreement-heartland/


[TITLE]Denmark Power Market Outlook Report 2025-2035 - Market Trends, Regulations, and Competitive Landscape Featuring Fjernvarme Fyn, Vattenfall, European Energy, and Orsted:
[TEXT]
Dublin, Nov. 14, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The "Denmark Power Market Outlook to 2035, Update 2025 - Market Trends, Regulations, and Competitive Landscape" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.

This report discusses the power market structure of Denmark and provides historical and forecast numbers for capacity, generation, and consumption up to 2035.

Detailed analysis of the country's power market regulatory structure, competitive landscape, and a list of major power plants are provided. The report also gives a snapshot of the power sector in the country on broad parameters of macroeconomics, supply security, generation infrastructure, transmission and distribution infrastructure, degree of competition, regulatory scenario, and future potential. An analysis of the deals in the country's power sector is also included in the report.

Scope

Snapshot of the country's power sector across parameters - macroeconomics, supply security, generation infrastructure, transmission infrastructure, electricity import and export scenario, degree of competition, regulatory scenario, and future potential of the power sector.

Statistics for installed capacity, generation, and consumption from 2020 to 2024, and forecast for the next 11 years to 2035

Capacity, generation, and major power plants by technology

Data on leading active and upcoming power plants

Information on transmission and distribution infrastructure

Policy and regulatory framework governing the market

Detailed analysis of top market participants, including market share analysis and SWOT analysis

Reasons to Buy

Identify opportunities and plan strategies by having a strong understanding of the investment opportunities in the country's power sector

Identify key factors driving investment opportunities in the country's power sector

Facilitate decision-making based on strong historic and forecast data

Develop strategies based on the latest regulatory events

Position yourself to gain the maximum advantage of the industry's growth potential

Identify key partners and business development avenues

Identify key strengths and weaknesses of important market participants

Respond to your competitors' business structure, strategy, and prospects

Key Topics Covered:

1. Executive Summary

2. Introduction

3. Capacity and Generation

4. Deal Analysis and New Investments

5. Market Forces Analysis

6. Project Status Analysis

7. Transmission and Distribution

8. Policy

9. Major Generating Companies

Fjernvarme Fyn AS

Vattenfall AB

European Energy AS

Orsted AS
[Source link]: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/11/14/3188098/28124/en/Denmark-Power-Market-Outlook-Report-2025-2035-Market-Trends-Regulations-and-Competitive-Landscape-Featuring-Fjernvarme-Fyn-Vattenfall-European-Energy-and-Orsted.html


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: european energy
name: european energy
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: fjernvarme fyn
name: fjernvarme fyn
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: heartland
symbol: HTLD
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1763600897
name: heartland
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: vattenfall
name: vattenfall
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

[TITLE]Is The UAE’s Gas Gamble in Syria A Triple Win for Washington?:
[TEXT]
The US and Great Britain are ramping up their efforts to secure the strategic advantage they created for the West in the Middle East by removing Russia’s key man in Syria, Bashar al-Assad, in December. A critical part of the political, economic, religious, and security fabric of the Middle East, it is also a crucial link from there to Africa in the south and to Europe in the West, by dint of its long Mediterranean coastline, as analysed in full in my latest book on the new global oil market order. The key to keeping Syria aligned with the West is to build up its economy with investment and on-the-ground help from Western firms, with a particular focus on the country’s previous main source of revenues – gas and oil exports. Handily for the West, such projects also legally allow for the stationing of ‘security’ personnel on these sites into which investment is being funnelled, along with any other assets that the companies involved might think fit to secure their operations. Alongside these, Washington and London believe lessons were learned from previous forays into Iraq and Libya, wherein the West’s efforts in those countries were increasingly regarded as neo-Crusader-like occupations by the indigenous populace, the longer they persisted. Consequently, moves are being made this time around to obviate such objections through the presence of Arabic states happy to work alongside their Western counterparts. Cue the United Arab Emirates (UAE), whose powerhouse enterprise Dana Gas last week signed a preliminary deal with Syria’s state oil company to look at redeveloping the country’s natural gas fields.

Related: Russian Crude Piles Up but Oil Prices Refuse to Move

Such fields were a foundation stone for Syria’s economy for years, along with oil, and it suffered less damage than its hydrocarbon counterpart during the 13-year-long civil war. Before the outbreak of hostilities, Syria’s gas output was around 316 billion cubic feet per day (bcf/d) of dry natural gas, with proven reserves of 8.5 trillion cubic feet (tcf). This had not gone unnoticed by Russia (along with its sizeable oil reserves and the strategic importance of its Mediterranean coastline), which had busily established a significant presence on the ground even before the civil war began in 2011. In fact, Stroytransgaz had begun the build-out of Syria’s South-Central Gas Area in 2009, which by 2011 had boosted the country’s natural gas production by
[Source link]: https://oilprice.com/Energy/Energy-General/Is-The-UAEs-Gas-Gamble-in-Syria-A-Triple-Win-for-Washington.html


[TITLE]China Tests Floating Devices That Turn Raindrops into Electricity:
[TEXT]
Chinese scientists have built and tested a floating droplet electricity generator (DEG) to turn the kinetic energy of raindrops into renewable power.

Unlike conventional DEGs, which are used on land and are heavier and costlier, the floating device developed by researchers at the Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics (NUAA), with the support of Chinese state and provincial funding and programs, uses water for both structural and electric-generation components.

In the research, published in the November issue of National Science Review, the scientists claim that the new device is lightweight and scalable and doesn’t need many of the heavy and expensive components that traditional DEGs have.

The floating device is thus lightweight and supported by the water surface on which it floats, making it cheaper and more sustainable without the use of heavy rigid structures.

The electrical output from the floating device is similar to that achieved with the conventional DEGs, according to the research.

Most importantly, the floating generator is scalable, say the scientists who have developed and tested it on the Donghua lake in Nanjing, China.

Related: Lithium Prices Surge as China Signals Sharper Demand Rebound

The novel device demonstrated an 87% reduction in material weight and a 50% cost savings compared to conventional DEGs. It also showed great durability in different environments, the researchers say.

Tests have demonstrated that the floating device continued to function under a wide range of temperatures and salt levels, and even when exposed to natural lake water containing biofouling.

The scientific team also designed drainage holes to let water move downward using the strong surface tension of the water. The drainage holes help remove droplets and water levels that could interfere with the electrical performance.

Scalability and performance are also key advantages of the floating device. Researchers found it charged capacitors to useful voltages within minutes. This suggests that the floating generator could power small electronic devices and wireless sensors.

With additional research and development, the floating droplet device could provide renewable energy from raindrops when installed on lakes, reservoirs, or waters close to coasts without taking up any land.

“We anticipate this work will open up a new avenue of harnessing water-like natural materials to construct hydrovoltaic devices and advance land-free large-scale applications,” the researchers wrote in the introduction to the study.

“By letting water itself play both structural and electrical roles, we've unlocked a new strategy for droplet electricity generation that is lightweight, cost-effective, and scalable,” Wanlin Guo, a corresponding author of the study, said, as carried by Science China Press.

“This opens the door to land-free hydrovoltaic systems that can complement other renewable technologies like solar and wind.”

China boasts leadership in the global push toward clean energy—and rightly so. Its electric vehicle sales are surging and already outselling conventional cars, while no country is close to the massive Chinese investment in renewable energy and storage, and the record-setting additions of solar and wind power capacity.

China has cemented its position as the world’s single largest investor in energy, the International Energy Agency (IEA) said in its World Energy Investment 2025 report.

“Today, China is by far the largest energy investor globally, spending twice as much on energy as the European Union – and almost as much as the EU and United States combined,” IEA Executive Director Fatih Birol said in the June report.

“Record-breaking renewables investment in China continues, advancing in tandem with the expansion of grid and storage for renewables while keeping coal in the mix,” the agency said.

Clean generation growth led by solar and wind met 84% of China’s electricity demand growth in 2024, clean energy think tank Ember said in a September report. In the first half of 2025 clean energy growth exceeded demand growth, cutting fossil fuel use by 2%, according to Ember.

By Charles Kennedy for Oilprice.com

More Top Reads From Oilprice.com
[Source link]: https://oilprice.com/Energy/Energy-General/China-Tests-Floating-Devices-That-Turn-Raindrops-into-Electricity.html


[Failed to load article at https://www.abc.net.au/news/rural/2025-11-19/sugar-beet-trialled-for-sustainable-aviation-fuel/106022432]


[TITLE]Momentum grows for global roadmap to phase out fossil fuels – DW – 11:
[TEXT]
Small island states and major economies are urging a fair fossil-fuel phase-out as climate negotiations enter a critical juncture. Climate-friendly trade and improved climate finance are among the main flashpoints.

Ministers from around the world crowded the podium at the UN climate conference in Belem, Brazil, united in calling for a rapid and equitable phase-out of the fossil fuels largely responsible for driving climate change.

Flanked by representatives from countries including Germany, Colombia, the UK and Kenya, Tina Stege, the Marshall Islands' climate envoy, evoked the spirit of Mutirao — a Portuguese word of Indigenous origin meaning 'collective effort' — in calling for a "roadmap" to transition away from oil, coal and gas.

Colombia is leading the charge of around 80 countries backing the inclusion of such a roadmap in a final COP agreement this year, according to negotiators. It advances a commitment first made at COP28 in Dubai, but with greenhouse gas emissions at a record high and warming accelerating, some fear the talks between nearly 200 nations lack urgency.

Brazil's President Lula da Silva said the climate conference in Belem, a city in the Amazon Rainforest, should be a COP of truth and implementation Image: Pablo Porciuncula/AFP

Dubbed the "COP of implementation," this year's climate summit aims to turn the high-profile promises of past negotiations into concrete action. A clear plan that would push countries to decarbonize their economies more quickly is one of the looming fights in the effort to seal a deal, as the marathon climate negotiations enter the final stretch.

Countries need to do more to cut emissions

One of the key issues at COP30 has centered around emissions-reductions targets that nations were obliged to submit this year as part of commitments made under the Paris Agreement.

An analysis of submitted pledges shows that even if every country delivers, the world is on course to massively overshoot the 1.5-degree Celsius (2.7 Fahrenheit) limit agreed in Paris a decade ago to avoid dangerous climate tipping points. Current policies put the world on track for catastrophic 2.6 to 2.8C warming by 2100.

Inside the talks, pressure is growing for a clearer plan to phase out oil, coal, and gas. The COP30 Presidency has circulated a draft text that includes a list of possible outcomes, such as switching to annual checks on the progress of emissions cuts or a joint roadmap to speed up the shift away from fossil fuels.

"This is the most cohesive first-draft package a COP Presidency has put on the table in years," Gustavo Pinheiro from the climate think tank E3G said in a statement. "It gives Belem a real chance to secure a political and narrative win."

Stege from the Marshall Islands, which is at risk of disappearing due to rising sea levels driven by climate change, said the current reference to a fossil fuel roadmap is "weak and it's presented as an option."

For Jan Kowalzig, Oxfam Germany's senior climate policy adviser, the current draft only postpones the problem.

"None of the options amount to an effective action plan for closing the ambition gap," he said in a statement. The ambition gap is the discrepancy between the emissions cuts needed to limit global warming and the cuts that have been pleged.

The pro-roadmap coalition will likely face pushback from oil-producing nations, like Saudi Arabia and Iran, who have traditionally resisted strong language on fossil fuels in COP outcomes.

Developed countries need to pay up for climate adaptation

The COP draft text addresses another flashpoint, and that's greater financing for poorer nations. The transition to a low-carbon economy also depends on how much money developing nations will receive from developed countries to adapt to increasing weather extremes in a warming world.

"Countries like us are already at the forefront," Sierra Leone's environment minister, Jiwoh Abdulai, said at Tuesday's roadmap press conference. "The cost of adaptation is increasing much faster than we can afford."

Sierra Leone is already feeling the impacts of climate change, including from rising sea levels Image: Patrick Meinhardt/AFP

Developing nations at the forefront of climate change will need about $310 billion (€266 billion) per year by 2035 to adapt, according to a report by the UN Environment Programme.

Ralph Regenvanu, Vanuatu's representative, told COP30 that climate finance systems are "failing" small island states like his.

"Climate finance is not charity. It is a legal and moral obligation," said Regenvanu, referring to the argument that wealthy, industrialized nations most responsible for the emissions causing climate change have a responsibility to help developing states.

One of the proposals in the COP Presidency's draft is a three-year plan setting clearer expectations for how much different developed countries should contribute. It also proposed tripling the adaptation finance goal of $40 billion annually.

Germany, currently the largest overall donor to the adaptation fund, pledged €60 million ($69 million) at this year's COP.

"The Presidency has brought the horses to water. Now they need to drink," Rob Moore, associate director at E3G, said in a statement. "Governments have just a few days to turn the tide after a year of aid cuts and private sector wavering, and to secure the legacy of Brazil's vision for how the investment gap can be bridged."

Countries need to balance trade and climate action

Some governments are worried that new climate policies, like carbon border fees or stricter green standards, could constitute hidden trade barriers that harm developing countries.

For example, the European Union's Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM) puts a price on carbon-intensive imports. That could make products from developing countries that are slower to transition to renewable energy more expensive and less competitive in the EU.

Extreme weather: Can we adapt, mitigate, and even thrive? To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video

China and India are pushing for a decision against unilateral trade barriers like CBAM. But EU climate chief Wopke Hoekstra told news agency AFP the bloc wouldn't be "lured into a phony conversation about trade measures."

The COP Presidency's draft suggests options such as a yearly UN meeting on climate-related trade rules or creating a new platform to examine their impacts. The goal is to make sure climate measures cut emissions without unfairly hurting other countries' economies.

The United States, the world's second largest greenhouse gas polluter, officially skipped this year's summit, which is supposed to close on Friday after two weeks, but previous talks have frequently gone into overtime.

Edited by: Jennifer Collins

With additional reporting from Giulia Saudelli, Djamilia Prange de Oliveira and Tim Schauenberg in Belem, Brazil.
[Source link]: https://www.dw.com/en/final-push-at-the-un-climate-talks-what-you-need-to-know/a-74796062


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: australia
symbol: CBA.AX
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1763600903
name: australia
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: china
name: china
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: uae
name: uae
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: un
name: un
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

[TITLE]Is The UAE’s Gas Gamble in Syria A Triple Win for Washington?:
[TEXT]
The US and Great Britain are ramping up their efforts to secure the strategic advantage they created for the West in the Middle East by removing Russia’s key man in Syria, Bashar al-Assad, in December. A critical part of the political, economic, religious, and security fabric of the Middle East, it is also a crucial link from there to Africa in the south and to Europe in the West, by dint of its long Mediterranean coastline, as analysed in full in my latest book on the new global oil market order. The key to keeping Syria aligned with the West is to build up its economy with investment and on-the-ground help from Western firms, with a particular focus on the country’s previous main source of revenues – gas and oil exports. Handily for the West, such projects also legally allow for the stationing of ‘security’ personnel on these sites into which investment is being funnelled, along with any other assets that the companies involved might think fit to secure their operations. Alongside these, Washington and London believe lessons were learned from previous forays into Iraq and Libya, wherein the West’s efforts in those countries were increasingly regarded as neo-Crusader-like occupations by the indigenous populace, the longer they persisted. Consequently, moves are being made this time around to obviate such objections through the presence of Arabic states happy to work alongside their Western counterparts. Cue the United Arab Emirates (UAE), whose powerhouse enterprise Dana Gas last week signed a preliminary deal with Syria’s state oil company to look at redeveloping the country’s natural gas fields.

Related: Russian Crude Piles Up but Oil Prices Refuse to Move

Such fields were a foundation stone for Syria’s economy for years, along with oil, and it suffered less damage than its hydrocarbon counterpart during the 13-year-long civil war. Before the outbreak of hostilities, Syria’s gas output was around 316 billion cubic feet per day (bcf/d) of dry natural gas, with proven reserves of 8.5 trillion cubic feet (tcf). This had not gone unnoticed by Russia (along with its sizeable oil reserves and the strategic importance of its Mediterranean coastline), which had busily established a significant presence on the ground even before the civil war began in 2011. In fact, Stroytransgaz had begun the build-out of Syria’s South-Central Gas Area in 2009, which by 2011 had boosted the country’s natural gas production by
[Source link]: https://oilprice.com/Energy/Energy-General/Is-The-UAEs-Gas-Gamble-in-Syria-A-Triple-Win-for-Washington.html


[Failed to load article at https://www.abc.net.au/news/rural/2025-11-19/sugar-beet-trialled-for-sustainable-aviation-fuel/106022432]


[TITLE]Influence of process parameters on single-cell oil production by Cutaneotrichosporon oleaginosus using response surface methodology - Biotechnology for Biofuels and Bioproducts:
[TEXT]
Experimental overview and data acquisition

To systematically evaluate the effects of temperature, pH, and DO on cell growth, lipid production, and fatty acid composition in the oleaginous yeast C. oleaginosus, 34 consumption-based acetic acid fermentation runs were conducted using BBD. The process parameters were tested within the following ranges: T (20–30 °C), pH (5.5–7.5), and DO (10–50%). During the fermentations, total lipid titer, lipid titer (oleate), and the proportions of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids were determined and used as response variables for model development. Sampling was performed twice a day at defined time points, while microscopic analysis, DCW, and fatty acid composition were determined every 24 h. The lipid titer was only measured at the end of the fermentation (96 h) due to limited culture volume. All tested conditions for model development, and their respective response variables after 96 h fermentation, are summarized in the supporting information Table S1. After 96 h, the measured DCW ranged from 26.5 to 48.7 g/L (0.28–0.51 g/L/h), while lipid titer varied from 18.7 to 36.2 g/L (0.19–0.38 g/L/h). These values indicate biomass and lipid productivities over time that are comparable to those reported in the literature for fed-batch cultivations of C. oleaginosus [20, 24]. To better visualize lipid accumulation, Fig. 1 shows Nile red-stained C. oleaginosus cells after 42 h and 90 h. The proportions of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids ranged from 36.1–50.4% and 49.6–63.9%, respectively, consistent with previous reports for C. oleaginosus under consumption-based acetic acid fermentations [20, 24, 27]. For each tested process parameter combination, the mean fatty acid profile of the biological duplicates after 96 h is shown in Figure S1. The findings indicate that increasing the temperature reduces the degree of saturation, while a lower pH increases the C18:C16 ratio.

Fig. 1 Nile red-stained C. oleaginosus cells after 42 h and 90 h of fermentation at 25 °C, pH 6.5, and 30% DO Full size image

Model construction and quality assessment

Based on the recommendations provided by Design-Expert software, quadratic models were selected to describe each response variable. The final model structure included linear, interaction, and quadratic terms, and can generally be expressed by Eq. (2). As the assumptions for model fitting were met, data transformation was not required for all response variables (lambda = 1). For the models describing lipid titer and lipid titer (oleate), all terms involving the DO (linear, interaction, and quadratic) were statistically non-significant (p > 0.05) and therefore excluded from the final model, leading to the reduced equation:

$$Y={\beta }_{0}+{\beta }_{1}T+{\beta }_{2}pH+{\beta }_{12}TpH+{\beta }_{11}{T}^{2}+{\beta }_{22}{pH}^{2}.$$ (3)

Although the linear DO term was statistically significant (p < 0.05) in the models for the proportions of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids, it was intentionally excluded from the final equations in order to maintain a consistent model structure across all responses. This decision was further supported by the standardized effects, which showed that temperature and pH contributed 57% and 31%, respectively, to variations in the fatty acid composition, while DO accounted for only 12%. Model quality and predictive performance remained high despite the exclusion of the DO terms, as indicated by R2 values and adequate precision (see Table 2). These observations were also in alignment with previous experiments, in which no significant effect of DO on the degree of fatty acid saturation was observed at a DO range of 10–75% during cultivation at 28 °C and pH 6.5 (Figure S2). The tested DO range is consistent with values commonly applied for cultivating oleaginous yeasts, typically spanning from 5 to 80% DO [24, 28, 29]. In consumption-based acetic acid fermentations with C. oleaginosus, a DO level of 50% is frequently used and therefore defines the upper limit of the DO range applied in the Box–Behnken design of this study, as lower DO levels reduce the energy demand for aeration and agitation and are therefore favorable [20, 27]. The influence of the DO on C. oleaginosus growth has also been analyzed in the literature; however, the findings are ambiguous, reporting both positive and negative effects of elevated oxygen concentrations during cultivation [24, 28]. This highlights the difficulty of comparing DO values across different experiments, as the measured value is affected by media composition, calibration method, temperature, and bioreactor geometry [30].

Table 2 Fit statistics of the developed quadratic models for the response variables (Y) Full size table

Quality and reliability of the developed quadratic models were evaluated using standard statistical indicators, as presented in Table 2. The coefficient of determination (R2) describes the amount of variation in the response variable explained by the model, reflecting its overall goodness-of-fit. However, as R2 increases with the number of terms, the adjusted R2 accounts for model complexity by only increasing if additional parameters improve the model more than would be expected by chance. The predicted R2 evaluates how well the model predicts new observations and is a key indicator of external validity [31]. A small difference (< 0.2) between adjusted and predicted R2 values suggests a robust model with good predictive accuracy. Adequate precision describes the signal-to-noise ratio, comparing the range of predicted values to their average standard error at the design points. A ratio greater than 4 is considered desirable [32, 33]. The coefficient of variation (CV) represents the ratio of the standard deviation to the mean and is expressed as a percentage. Lower CV values indicate higher model precision and less variability between replicates, and are generally considered favorable for model reliability [12].

The models describing fatty acid composition (saturated and unsaturated) exhibited high R2 values (0.91 and 0.94) and adjusted R2 values (0.89 and 0.92), indicating that most of the variability in the response variables is explained by the models. The slight difference between adjusted and predicted R2 values (< 0.2) further suggests good model robustness and predictive accuracy. In addition, high signal-to-noise ratios (adequate precision > 4) and low coefficients of variation (CV < 5%) support the precision and reproducibility of these models. In contrast, the lipid titer and lipid titer (oleate) models showed moderate explanatory and predictive strength, as reflected by lower R2, adjusted R2, and predicted R2 values, indicating higher experimental variability in these responses. Nevertheless, both models fulfilled the general quality criteria, with precision values above the threshold of 4 and acceptable CV values below 15%, which is considered suitable for biological systems [34]. According to Mandenius and Brundin [35], an R2 above 0.75 typically indicates a good model fit. Despite the statistical validity of the lipid titer models for trend analysis and optimization within the tested parameter range, their predictive strength should be interpreted with caution. The slightly larger difference (≈ 0.2) between adjusted and predicted R2 values further supports their limited predictive strength. The relatively high unexplained variance may result from inherent biological variability among the replicates, including cell growth or lipid accumulation differences, both of which directly affect the lipid titer. Therefore, all models are statistically acceptable; however, only the models describing the fatty acid composition should be considered highly robust and reliable for predictive purposes. The models for saturated and unsaturated fatty acid content thereby represent the first theoretical framework for C. oleaginosus to predict the degree of fatty acid saturation based on cultivation temperature and pH.

The final regression equations used for the response variable prediction are summarized in the supporting information Table S2. These equations include linear, interaction, and quadratic terms for the temperature and pH, and serve as the basis for further model-based optimization. For each of the 34 tested conditions for BBD development, predicted values were calculated using the final equations. To assess the predictive performance and detect potential bias, predicted values were plotted against the corresponding experimentally observed values (OP plots; observed values on the ordinate, predicted values on the abscissa), and linear regressions were performed (Supporting Information Figure S3). The respective regression lines and R2 values provide an additional measure of model quality.

Due to the identical means of predicted and observed data, as ensured by the Design-Expert model fitting, all OP regressions yielded a slope of 1 and an intercept close to 0. This behavior aligns with theoretical expectations described by Piñeiro et al. [36] and further supports the accuracy and symmetry of the developed models, confirming the absence of systematic prediction bias.

Model interpretation and influence of process parameters

To gain a deeper understanding of the individual and interactive effects of process parameters on the response variables, the response surface plots (Fig. 2) and the corresponding coded equations of the quadratic models (Table 3) were evaluated.

Fig. 2 Response surface plots showing the influence of process parameters on response variables. The combined effects of temperature (T) and pH are shown in A total lipid titer, B lipid titer (oleate), C saturated fatty acids, and D unsaturated fatty acids. Color gradients indicate the value of the response variables across the experimental range Full size image

Table 3 Coded factors of quadratic response surface models Full size table

Total and oleate lipid titer

The total lipid titer is a key response variable that reflects the quantitative outcome of microbial oil production, and is therefore an important target for process optimization. Variations in process parameters can directly affect the growth of the oleaginous yeasts, or their capacity to accumulate intracellular lipids, both influencing the final lipid titer and overall lipid productivity [11]. Lipid productivity thereby indicates the most cost-impacting factor in biodiesel production, as described by Kumar et al. [37]. In addition to the total lipid titer, the oleate lipid titer was included as a relevant response variable due to its specific industrial relevance. Oleic acid offers favorable fuel properties for biodiesel applications, including a desirable melting point, high oxidative stability, suitable kinematic viscosity, and a high heat of combustion [38]. In addition, oleic acid can be enzymatically converted into 10-(R)-hydroxy stearic acid (10-HSA), a fatty acid-derived fine chemical used in the lubricant and cosmetic industries [18]. Since oleate (C18:1) typically represents the predominant fatty acid produced by C. oleaginosus, similar effects of the process parameters on total lipid and oleate titers can be expected.

As demonstrated in the response surface plots, temperature and pH exhibited similar effects on both lipid titer (Fig. 2A) and oleate titer (Fig. 2B). In general, lipid titer increased with rising temperatures or decreasing pH values, reaching maximum values at approximately 28–30 °C and pH levels around 5.5–6.0. In contrast, low temperatures (20 °C) or alkaline conditions (pH 7.5) markedly reduced lipid accumulation, regardless of the respective pH or temperature setting. The response surface plot for oleate lipid titer displayed a similar pattern, suggesting a comparable dependency on the process parameters. However, the temperature optimum was shifted slightly toward lower values (26–30 °C), which is consistent with literature reports, indicating that lower temperatures promote the synthesis of unsaturated fatty acids, such as oleic acid in oleaginous yeasts [8, 16]. This trend can be explained by temperature-dependent regulation of desaturase enzymes, which introduce double bonds into fatty acid chains. The thereby increased degree of unsaturation enhances membrane fluidity, counteracting the increased membrane rigidity observed at lower cultivation temperatures [39]. The coded regression coefficients in Table 3 support the observed trends in the response surface plots. In these coded equations, the values for temperature and pH are normalized to a range from -1 to 1, enabling direct comparison of the relative influence of each factor. For total lipid titer, temperature and pH showed antagonistic linear effects (β 1 = 3.46; β 2 = − 3.47) with a similar strength. However, the larger quadratic term for pH (β 22 = − 3.29 vs. β 11 = − 2.24) indicates a more pronounced curvature. For the oleate titer, linear and quadratic coefficients for the pH value were higher than those for temperature. The observations therefore suggest a greater overall influence of pH on total lipid titer, and lipid titer of oleate within the tested range. This stronger effect of pH can likely be attributed to its direct impact on acetic acid uptake, the primary carbon source utilized for lipid production in this study. In yeast cells, acetic acid can be taken up either as acetate via active transporters or as undissociated acetic acid via passive diffusion [40]. Lower pH values increase the fraction of undissociated acetic acid (15.4% at pH 5.5 and 1.8% at pH 6.5), thereby enhancing substrate availability and supporting higher lipid production. Studies from Duman‑Özdamar et al. and Cui et al. also analyzed the influence of process parameters on the lipid production by C. oleaginosus using response surface methodology [8, 17]. In shake flask experiments conducted under nitrogen-limited conditions with glycerol as the carbon source, both studies identified an optimal temperature for lipid production around 30 °C. Cui et al. further determined a pH optimum of 6.0 for lipid accumulation [17]. In the present study, a similar temperature optimum was observed, while the pH optimum was slightly lower (5.7), which may be explained by the pH-based feeding strategy applied in the bioreactor setup.

Saturated and unsaturated fatty acid composition

As the degree of saturation of the yeast oil produced determines its physicochemical properties, changes in the fatty acid profile can enable a wide range of end-use applications. Therefore, the influence of temperature and pH on the fatty acid composition was analyzed using the respective response surface plots (Fig. 2C, D) and the coded regression equations (Table 3). In general, an inverse relationship between the proportions of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids was observed. A strong positive correlation was found between the degree of saturation and the cultivation temperature. This effect appeared linear within the tested parameter range (20 °C ≤ T ≥ 30 °C), as indicated by the response surface plots and the coded factors (see Fig. 2C, D, and Table 3). The influence of the pH on the degree of saturation was less pronounced. However, higher pH values tend to increase saturation. Cultivation at elevated temperature (30 °C) and high pH (pH 7.5) resulted in a higher proportion of saturated fatty acids, while the opposite process parameters (T = 20 °C, pH 5.5) reduced saturation.

The observed influence of temperature on the fatty acid profile aligns with previous literature, which also reports an increase in saturation at elevated temperatures for C. oleaginosus and other oleaginous yeasts [8, 16, 41]. While pH is known to significantly affect cell growth and, consequently, lipid titer in oleaginous yeasts (see 3.2.1), its direct impact on the fatty acid profile is generally considered negligible [15, 42, 43]. In contrast, the observations from this study suggest that during consumption-based acetic acid fermentation, higher pH values promote fatty acid saturation in C. oleaginosus. This pH influence on the degree of saturation can be explained by differences in substrate availability during fermentation at varying pH levels. As described above, lower pH levels enhance the uptake of undissociated acetic acid via passive diffusion, which is consistent with the observed differences in overall acetic acid consumption at 25 °C. The total amount of acetic acid consumed during the 96 h cultivation increased with decreasing pH (pH 5.5: 1.69 ± 0.13 g/L/h, n = 3; pH 6.5: 1.36 ± 0.19 g/L/h, n = 14; pH 7.5: 1.14 ± 0.36 g/L/h, n = 3). Consequently, lower pH values increase the intracellular availability of acetic acid, which in turn affects the metabolic fluxes involved in lipid biosynthesis and thereby alters the degree of fatty acid saturation. Thus, pH most likely affects the lipid profile only indirectly, by modulating acetic acid availability rather than directly influencing lipid metabolism. Similar substrate-induced shifts in fatty acid profiles have been reported for other oleaginous yeasts [9,10,11]. Specifically, acetic acid as a carbon source has been shown to slightly favor the formation of more unsaturated fatty acids compared to other organic acids [44]. Previous shake flask experiments with C. oleaginosus in nitrogen-limited batch conditions showed no notable effect of pH on the fatty acid saturation (data not shown), thereby supporting the hypothesis of a substrate-dependent shift during consumption-based acetic acid fermentations.

Model validation under optimized conditions

To validate the predictive performance of the developed quadratic models, optimization criteria were defined for each response variable. The optimal combinations of process parameters within the tested ranges were identified by the models to maximize each target response and were selected for validation experiments (see Table 4). Since the developed models used for parameter prediction did not include a DO term, the oxygen saturation during fermentation was set to 10% in all cases to reduce operating costs by minimizing the required agitation and aeration [28, 45]. The results thereby indicate that the growth and lipid production of C. oleaginosus are largely unaffected by low dissolved oxygen levels (10%). This provides valuable guidance, especially for process scale-up, as cultivation at reduced DO lowers energy requirements and consequently reduces overall production costs. These optimized conditions were tested in biological triplicates together with five further fermentation runs under central conditions (25 °C, pH 6.5, 30% DO), to further take biological variability into account.

Table 4 Optimized process parameter settings for maximizing each response variable Y opt Full size table

All measured data for the respective response variables after 96 h of cultivation are summarized in the supporting information Table S3. The predictive performance of the developed quadratic models was evaluated based on these 17 validation experiments. Therefore, the mean and median deviations between the measured and predicted response variables, as well as the percentage of validation runs within the 95% prediction interval were calculated (see Table S4).

For total lipid titer and lipid titer (oleate), which had moderate R2 values of 0.66 and 0.55, respectively, the mean deviations between predicted and observed values were slightly above 10% (12.9% and 14.0%). Nevertheless, 88.2% and 94.1% of the 17 validation runs fell within the 95% PI, indicating an acceptable model reliability despite the limited goodness-of-fit. The larger deviations are likely to be attributed to the biological variability between fermentations. As the 95% prediction intervals are much wider than the 95% confidence intervals, both models can support general trend identification and process understanding. However, for precise optimization of the respective response variables, further refinement of the models is required. The quadratic models describing the fatty acid composition of the yeast oil showed comparable model reliability based on the 95% PI coverage (88.2% for saturated and 94.1% for unsaturated fatty acids). However, the mean deviation between predicted and observed values was much lower (2.4% and 2.1%, respectively), reflecting the superior model fit as indicated by the high R2 values (R2 saturated = 0.91; R2 unsaturated = 0.94). These results confirm that the models for fatty acid distribution not only describe the experimental trends well, but can also provide accurate predictions of the fatty acid composition within the tested parameter range. Therefore, the required process conditions for obtaining tailored fatty acid profiles can be reliably predicted, enabling different end-use applications of the yeast oil by simply adjusting temperature and pH during fermentation.

After confirming the predictive reliability of the developed models, the fermentation experiments conducted under the respective optimized and central conditions were analyzed in more detail to evaluate biomass formation, substrate utilization, and product accumulation. Mean values and standard deviations for DCW, glucose, and acetic acid concentrations, as well as the lipid titer, are presented in Fig. 3 for each validation condition. In all conditions, the initial glucose concentration of 30 g/L was depleted within the first 48 h, except for the condition at 20 °C and pH 5.5 (Fig. 3E), where 5.5 g/L glucose remained at that time point. These observations are consistent with the glucose consumption patterns observed both during the fermentation runs used for model development and in fermentations reported by Rerop et al. under similar conditions with 30 g/L initial glucose at 28 °C and pH 6.5 [20]. In fermentations conducted at 20 °C, residual glucose was frequently detected after 48 h, whereas at 25 °C or 30 °C, complete glucose depletion typically occurred within this time frame, regardless of pH and DO concentration (data not shown). This observation can be attributed to lower growth rates μ at 20 °C during the first 24 h, which result in slower glucose uptake compared to 25 °C and 30 °C (at pH 6.5: μ 20°C = 0.069 ± 0.004 1/h, n = 4; μ 25°C = 0.088 ± 0.008 1/h, n = 15; μ 30°C = 0.089 ± 0.007 1/h, n = 4). The lower growth rates at 20 °C, also explain the reduced acetic acid consumption rate at this temperature. Acetic acid concentrations remained stable between 1.5 and 3.5 g/L throughout the cultivation across all tested conditions. This underscores the effectiveness of the pH-based acetic acid feeding strategy developed by Masri et al., which enables balanced substrate availability and avoids both substrate limitation and accumulation. This approach adapts dynamically to the actual substrate uptake rate, regardless of the biological performance of the culture [27].

Fig. 3 Biomass formation, substrate utilization, and lipid production during the validation experiments. The development of these cultivation parameters is shown for the central condition (A) and the optimized conditions for total lipid titer (B), lipid titer (oleate) (C), saturated fatty acid content (D), and unsaturated fatty acid content (E). Values represent mean ± standard deviation of n biological replicates (n = 15 for the central condition; n = 3 for each optimized condition) Full size image

Biomass increased almost linearly in all conditions without signs of saturation or limitation, indicating that prolonged cultivation would likely result in higher final DCW values. This observation is consistent with findings by Masri et al. [27], who reported continuous biomass growth over a period of 120 h of fermentation. After 96 h, the highest overall DCW (51.5 g/L) was observed under the optimized conditions for oleate lipid titer at 27.6 °C and pH 5.6 (Fig. 3C). In contrast, the lowest overall DCW (39.3 g/L) was measured at the lowest tested temperature (20 °C, pH 5.5), representing the optimized conditions for maximizing unsaturated fatty acid production (Fig. 3E). As expected, the growth of C. oleaginosus was reduced at lower temperatures, in agreement with previous studies [8, 17]. However, the biomass concentration obtained at the central conditions (25 °C, pH 6.5) was only slightly higher (40.9 g/L after 96 h), highlighting the robustness of the strain across a moderate temperature range. The highest lipid titer after 96 h was observed under the conditions maximizing the oleate lipid titer (36.3 g/L at 27.6 °C, pH 5.6; Fig. 3C), and for saturated fatty acid production (37.2 g/L at 30 °C, pH 7.0; Fig. 3D), whereas the lowest titer (27.6 g/L) was measured under the optimized condition for unsaturated fatty acid accumulation (20 °C, pH 5.5; Fig. 3E). The overall lipid content varied between 65 and 75% (w lipid /w DCW ) across all tested conditions, indicating that differences in lipid titer primarily result from variations in biomass formation rather than from a reduced capacity for lipid accumulation. For a better economic evaluation, the product yield (substrate-to-product conversion ratio) was calculated for the respective optimized conditions. The highest product yield was observed under the condition optimized for saturated fatty acid production, with 0.24 ± 0.01 g/g, while the center condition reached 0.23 ± 0.02 g/g. The lowest yield was obtained under the condition optimized for total lipid titer (0.20 ± 0.01 g/g), likely due to the increased acetic acid consumption observed at lower pH values. Overall, the product yields determined in this study are comparable to values recently reported in the literature for consumption-based acetic acid fermentations with C. oleaginosus [20]. To enable better comparison with previous studies on consumption-based acetic acid fermentations with C. oleaginosus, the lipid productivity (amount lipid produced per unit volume and time) was calculated. In line with the lipid titer data, the highest productivities were observed under the optimized conditions for oleate lipid titer (27.6 °C, pH 5.6), and saturated fatty acid production (30 °C, pH 7.0), with 0.38 g/L/h and 0.39 g/L/h, respectively. Under the central condition (25 °C, pH 6.5), a lipid productivity of 0.32 g/L/h was achieved, while the lowest productivity was observed at 20 °C, pH 5.5 (0.29 g/L/h). Using comparable feeding setups and media compositions with 30 g/L initial glucose, Rerop et al. and Stellner et al. reported lipid titers of 18.5 g/L and 16.8 g/L after 72 h at 28 °C and pH 6.5, with a lipid content of 53% (w lipid /w DCW ). These values correspond to lipid productivities of 0.26 g/L/h and 0.23 g/L/h, respectively [20, 24]. This demonstrates that lipid production in C. oleaginosus can be substantially enhanced through a DoE-based optimization approach by adjusting key process parameters, such as temperature and pH, to promote both cell growth and lipid accumulation. This resulted in up to 16% higher lipid productivity compared to the central conditions and up to 50% higher compared to previously reported values in the literature [20]. While the R2 value of the oleate lipid titer model indicates only moderate predictive power (R2 = 0.55), the observed increases in lipid productivity relative to the center condition nevertheless suggest a positive effect of the optimized process parameters on lipid accumulation in C. oleaginosus, thereby providing an important indicative understanding of the process behavior.

As this study was conducted using only glucose and acetic acid as carbon sources, further increases in lipid production may be achieved by combining the process optimization strategies presented here with alternative carbon sources or feeding strategies, as well as by increasing the starting sugar concentration, as explored in other studies. One such approach involves the use of second-generation feedstocks, such as paper mill sludge, macro- and microalgal biomass, or corn stover hydrolysate, which are considered low-cost and sustainable substrates for microbial lipid production [20, 46,47,48]. For example, Rerop et al. demonstrated that the use of a lignocellulosic hydrolysate derived from the pulp and paper industry significantly enhanced both biomass formation and lipid titer compared to a glucose-based control [20].

To better understand how process parameters such as temperature and pH influence the fatty acid profile over time, the composition of fatty acids was analyzed every 24 h. Figure 4 shows the temporal development of the fatty acid composition of C. oleaginosus under the central conditions (25 °C, pH 6.5, 30% DO) as well as under the optimized conditions for saturated fatty acid content (30 °C, pH 7.0, 10% DO), and unsaturated fatty acid content (20 °C, pH 5.5, 10% DO). Comparing the three conditions, differences in fatty acid composition were already observed after 24 h, indicating a rapid adaptation of lipid biosynthesis to the specific temperature and pH conditions. Only minor changes were observed after 48 h, and from 72 h onwards, the fatty acid profiles remained largely stable until 96 h. These trends were consistent across the other validation fermentations as well as the BBD-based experimental runs (data not shown). The results suggest that temperature and pH have a rapid effect on the fatty acid composition and are therefore also relevant for shorter fermentation processes.

Fig. 4 Temporal development of the fatty acid profile of C. oleaginosus during consumption-based acetic acid fermentation under validation conditions. Shown are changes in fatty acid composition between 24 and 96 h for the central condition (25 °C, pH 6.5, 30% DO) and two optimized conditions: for saturated fatty acid content (30 °C, pH 7.0, 10% DO), and for unsaturated fatty acid content (20 °C, pH 5.5, 10% DO). Values represent mean ± standard deviation of n biological replicates Full size image

As the optimized conditions for saturated and unsaturated fatty acid content were specifically selected to represent the maximum achievable shifts in fatty acid composition within the tested parameter range, the corresponding fatty acid profiles from the validation experiments are shown in Fig. 5A. The central conditions (25 °C, pH 6.5), as well as the optimized conditions for total (30 °C, pH 5.7) and oleate lipid titer (27.6 °C, pH 5.6), resulted in a similar degree of saturation of approximately 44%. This comparable level of saturation aligns well with the trends observed during model development (Fig. 2C, D), where temperature and pH exhibited antagonistic effects on the degree of saturation. While the elevated temperature in the optimized lipid titer condition increased saturation, the lower pH appeared to reduce it, resulting in a balanced overall effect. Interestingly, despite the similar total saturation, the distribution between palmitic acid (C16:0) and stearic acid (C18:0) varied across the three conditions. In the fermentations optimized for saturated (30 °C, pH 7.0) and unsaturated fatty acid composition (20 °C, pH 5.5), the synergistic effects of temperature and pH became more evident. Saturation degrees of 47% and 36.6% were observed, respectively. These results demonstrate that the adjustment of process parameters such as temperature and pH alone can induce an absolute shift in saturation of more than 10%.

Fig. 5 Fatty acid profiles of C. oleaginosus after 96 h fermentation under varying process parameters. A Shows the fatty acid composition under the central conditions (25 °C, pH 6.5, 30% DO) and four optimized conditions: for total lipid titer (30 °C, pH 5.7, 10% DO), lipid titer (oleate) (27.6 °C, pH 5.6, 10% DO), saturated fatty acid content (30 °C, pH 7.0, 10% DO), and unsaturated fatty acid content (20 °C, pH 5.5, 10% DO). In B, the impact of temperature (left) and pH (right) on the fatty acid profile under conditions used for BBD development is shown. The DO level was set to 10% saturation in these cases. Values represent mean ± standard deviation of n biological replicates in all cases. Statistically significant differences in the overall degree of fatty acid saturation between groups are indicated with * (p < 0.05) Full size image

Shaigani et al. developed genetically engineered C. oleaginosus strains using the CRISPR/Cas9 system. In shake flask cultivations under nitrogen-limited conditions, overexpression of ∆9-fatty acid desaturase genes (D9FAD) led to an increase in oleic acid and a decrease in total saturated fatty acids by approximately 3.3% after 96 h, compared to the wild-type strain. When alternative promoter systems such as TEF1 or AKR1 were used to control D9FAD expression, the saturation level could be modulated more significantly, resulting in an increase in saturation of up to 20% [49]. These findings highlight the potential of metabolic engineering to tailor fatty acid profiles in oleaginous yeasts. However, the genetic modification of oleaginous yeasts is still technically challenging, and concerns regarding strain stability and regulatory hurdles, particularly in food and feed applications, can limit its industrial application [50]. For applications where the use of genetically modified organisms is permitted, further adaptation of the fatty acid profile could be achieved through a combination of targeted strain engineering and precise adjustment of cultivation parameters.

To better understand and visualize the influence of process parameters on fatty acid composition, Fig. 5B shows data from the fermentation runs used for model development, illustrating the respective effects of temperature and pH while keeping all other conditions constant. As previously discussed, increasing the temperature from 20 °C to 30 °C leads to a higher degree of saturation. At a constant pH of 6.5 and 10% DO, a temperature increase of 10 °C resulted in an 8.5% enhancement in saturation. These findings are consistent with the results from validation experiments, where simultaneous changes in temperature and pH led to more pronounced changes in the fatty acid profile. A likely explanation for the temperature dependence of fatty acid saturation is the adaptive response of yeast cells to lower temperatures by upregulating the expression of fatty acid desaturases, as previously reported for Yarrowia lipolytica [51]. The distribution between palmitic acid and stearic acid appears to be only slightly affected by temperature, with an increase of 10 °C leading to a change in palmitic acid content of only 2.5%.

An increase in pH from 5.5 to 7.5, while maintaining 25 °C and 10% DO, resulted in a slight increase in overall fatty acid saturation of 2.4%. However, a lower pH reduced the content of palmitic acid (C16:0) and increased the stearic acid (C18:0) content. A reduction in pH from 7.5 to 5.5 led to a 13.3% decrease in C16:0 content. This pH-dependent shift in the C16/C18 ratio was also consistently observed in the other validation fermentations.

A possible explanation could be the enhanced uptake of acetic acid under more acidic conditions, as previously discussed. In yeasts, the elongation of palmitic acid to stearic acid occurs in the endoplasmic reticulum and is catalyzed by the Elo2 fatty acid elongase [19]. This reaction uses malonyl-CoA as a two-carbon donor and NADPH as a reducing agent [52]. Increased acetic acid availability at low pH may elevate intracellular acetyl-CoA levels, leading to higher malonyl-CoA concentrations and consequently enhanced elongation of C16:0 to C18:0 [53, 54]. Consequently, the fatty acid profile of the produced yeast oil can be tailored by adjusting cultivation parameters, with temperature primarily influencing the degree of saturation, and pH predominantly affecting the C16/C18 ratio.

Industrial application and product customization through process control

To assess the industrial applicability of the produced yeast oil as a biofuel, key fuel-related parameters such as cetane number, iodine value, higher heating value, and kinematic viscosity were calculated based on the respective fatty acid composition using equations provided by Sergeeva et al. [55]. As shown in Table 5, all produced yeast oils, regardless of the cultivation conditions, fulfilled the threshold values of the European biodiesel standard and thus represent suitable alternatives to palm oil. In particular, the oil produced under conditions optimized for saturated fatty acid content (30 °C, pH 7.0, 10% DO) exhibited the highest cetane number, indicating higher combustibility of the fuel, and the lowest iodine number, indicating a higher oxidative stability of the fuel. These properties are both favorable for biofuel production. Compared to conventional vegetable oils, such as palm, rapeseed, soybean, and high-oleic sunflower oil (HOSO), the yeast-derived oils showed comparable or even superior fuel properties, particularly in terms of cetane number and oxidative stability. In addition to biodiesel, yeast oil may also represent a promising feedstock for sustainable aviation fuels. A high proportion of saturated fatty acids is favorable in this context, as unsaturated fatty acids require an additional hydrogenation step to convert double bonds into saturated hydrocarbons in the HEFA (Hydroprocessed Esters and Fatty Acids) pathway [56].

Table 5 Degree of saturation and estimated fuel properties of yeast and plant-derived oils. Fuel-related parameters of the different yeast oils obtained in this study were calculated based on the respective measured fatty acid profiles Full size table

As monounsaturated fatty acids represent an excellent compromise between oxidative stability and favorable fluidity across a wide temperature range, oils with high oleic acid content are of particular industrial interest [58]. Potential applications for the yeast-derived oil include biolubricants, hydraulic fluids, and insulating oils for electrical transformers [58]. In this context, yeast oil offers a sustainable oleic acid source, with the potential for higher productivities and significantly reduced land requirements compared to conventional vegetable-based feedstocks. Prem et al. observed that oil derived from C. oleaginosus enabled the most efficient bioconversion of oleic acid into the fine chemical 10-HSA, outperforming vegetable oils such as HOSO and rapeseed oil [18]. Moreover, the oleic acid content of yeast oil can be selectively increased by adjusting the cultivation parameters. A lower temperature and pH (20 °C, pH 5.5) enhanced the C18:1 content by nearly 10%, reaching 57.4% of total fatty acids, compared to cultivation at 30 °C and pH 7.5 (48.8% (w/w) C18:1).

As a change of cultivation parameters showed the possibility to adjust both the saturation and the C16/C18 ratio of the produced yeast oil without the need for genetic engineering, the results are of particular interest for the food industry. This is especially relevant for the production of cocoa butter equivalents (CBEs), where a defined ratio of palmitic, stearic, and oleic acid is essential to replicate the physical and sensory properties of natural cocoa butter, such as melting characteristics and texture [59]. Cacao butter typically exhibits the following fatty acid composition: 21.7–27.0% C16:0, 30.6–39.2% C18:0, 29.4–35.4% C18:1, 2.2–3.4% C18:2, < 2.0% C20:0 [60]. Cultivation of C. oleaginosus at 30 °C and a pH around 6.5 was found to enhance the degree of saturation while maintaining the palmitic acid content within the target range. Through additional optimization of the cultivation medium, the lipid profile can be further tailored to match that of cocoa butter, without the need for genetically modified organisms [9,10,11]. Moreover, this biotechnological approach offers key advantages over conventional plant oil-based CBEs, as it reduces dependency on agricultural land and climate change effects. Further, it enables more sustainable production with significantly lower resource requirements [61].
[Source link]: https://biotechnologyforbiofuels.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13068-025-02717-3


[TITLE]Why Bigger Isn't Necessarily Better For India’s Public Sector Banks — In This Economy:
[TEXT]
India saw its retail inflation drop to an all-time low of 0.25% in October. This was supported by sharp deflation in vegetable prices, weak prices of cereals and pulses, and a large base effect coming into play. Economists believe that a large uptick in gold prices aside, India was already seeing trends of price rise turning negative. Wholesale-price indexed inflation too was in the negative zone at -1.2%, compared with 0.1% in September. The next logical question is if the central bank will take the lead and cut rates next month. Economists say the call is not so easy to predict. Gross domestic product growth is expected to continue to push 7% levels, which go against the case for a rapid rate cut. Soumyakanti Ghosh of SBI Research believes that an inflation-targeting central bank's job is to first cut when inflation dips. We'll keep a close watch over what happens in December.

On to this week's newsletter!

Do Public Sector Banks Need Consolidation?

While addressing the audience at an event in Mumbai on Nov. 6, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the government is in talks with the RBI and banks to create large, world-class banks. The FM's comments came amidst a lot of source-based reporting which suggested that a plan was being put in place to merge state-owned banks in India.

If materialised, this would be the second major consolidation exercise in recent years, with the last one being concluded in 2020. At that time, 26 public sector banks were cut to 11, with large mergers such as Bank of Baroda, Dena Bank and Vijaya Bank. Other mergers included Punjab National Bank, United Bank of India and Oriental Bank of Commerce; Union Bank of India, Andhra Bank and Corporation Bank and Indian Bank with Allahabad Bank.

One could argue that these banks have actually had a decent run since the massive merger spree. The Covid-19 period gave them a major liquidity boost and the resultant retail finance boom put these lenders on an even stronger footing. The RBI's timely intervention on unsecured credit further boosted the case for public sector banks, as their private peers had to quickly pivot to a secured credit model.

But the question is if they need that same treatment now. The main argument in favour of it is that India needs large, world-class banks. This is yet to truly materialise. State Bank of India, the largest of all banks in India, reached the Rs 100 trillion business-mark only in the September quarter of this fiscal. The next two large banks in line are both private sector lenders, which are significantly smaller.

Public sector banks are still in their growth phase, with cleaner balance sheets and more effective strategies. Burdening the management with merger work may not be the most effective use of resources for now.

For all the talk of India's massive credit market potential, the one fact that banks have realised is that the addressable market might be much smaller. Yes, more people are now in organised work, there is more digital data available now than at any point in the last decade, we also have incredibly better digital finance options now. But still, most of India's prestigious lenders lend to the same set of borrowers. The pie has definitely grown, but mostly in the crusty bits where the biggest lenders don't really want to splurge.

The other major issue with this merger strategy is controls.

Are India's banking laws and regulations ready to handle multiple super-banks? Currently, India's systemically important banks list has remained unchanged with only the top three featuring in it. With the creation of these world class, supersized banks, that list may need to change. With them comes the need for tighter supervision and improved monitoring.

Food for thought.

Feature Five

- First tranche of the India-US trade deal is nearing closure now, Rishabh reports.

- Noida-based Signodrive to deploy 4,000 Gensol EVs across Delhi-NCR, Bengaluru — Agnidev's newsbreak confirmed.

- Since Sunday, Mumbai has seen severe disruption in the supply of compressed natural gas owing to damage to a key gas pipeline

- Mahanagar Gas Ltd's Ashu Singhal tells Soumeet Sarkar that the disrupted CNG supply would be restored by Tuesday.

- Anil Ambani has skipped summons from the Enforcement Directorate a second time. The first time around, the ED had rejected his plea to appear through video conferencing, Shrimi reports

Caught My Eye

SS Rajamouli has found himself at the receiving end of the ire of his more god-fearing audiences. A self-professed atheist himself, Rajamouli was annoyed with the tech glitches at a teaser launch event for his next mega movie, Varanasi. While talking to the people at the event, he made some references to Hanuman, which eventually irked a lot of people on the internet. And as expected, this went very poorly for the ace director.
[Source link]: https://www.ndtvprofit.com/opinion/why-bigger-isnt-necessarily-better-for-indias-psbs-in-this-economy


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: australia
symbol: CBA.AX
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1763600907
name: australia
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: congo
name: congo
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: india
symbol: US45687V1061.SG
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1763600911
name: india
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: uae
name: uae
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

[TITLE]Is The UAE’s Gas Gamble in Syria A Triple Win for Washington?:
[TEXT]
The US and Great Britain are ramping up their efforts to secure the strategic advantage they created for the West in the Middle East by removing Russia’s key man in Syria, Bashar al-Assad, in December. A critical part of the political, economic, religious, and security fabric of the Middle East, it is also a crucial link from there to Africa in the south and to Europe in the West, by dint of its long Mediterranean coastline, as analysed in full in my latest book on the new global oil market order. The key to keeping Syria aligned with the West is to build up its economy with investment and on-the-ground help from Western firms, with a particular focus on the country’s previous main source of revenues – gas and oil exports. Handily for the West, such projects also legally allow for the stationing of ‘security’ personnel on these sites into which investment is being funnelled, along with any other assets that the companies involved might think fit to secure their operations. Alongside these, Washington and London believe lessons were learned from previous forays into Iraq and Libya, wherein the West’s efforts in those countries were increasingly regarded as neo-Crusader-like occupations by the indigenous populace, the longer they persisted. Consequently, moves are being made this time around to obviate such objections through the presence of Arabic states happy to work alongside their Western counterparts. Cue the United Arab Emirates (UAE), whose powerhouse enterprise Dana Gas last week signed a preliminary deal with Syria’s state oil company to look at redeveloping the country’s natural gas fields.

Related: Russian Crude Piles Up but Oil Prices Refuse to Move

Such fields were a foundation stone for Syria’s economy for years, along with oil, and it suffered less damage than its hydrocarbon counterpart during the 13-year-long civil war. Before the outbreak of hostilities, Syria’s gas output was around 316 billion cubic feet per day (bcf/d) of dry natural gas, with proven reserves of 8.5 trillion cubic feet (tcf). This had not gone unnoticed by Russia (along with its sizeable oil reserves and the strategic importance of its Mediterranean coastline), which had busily established a significant presence on the ground even before the civil war began in 2011. In fact, Stroytransgaz had begun the build-out of Syria’s South-Central Gas Area in 2009, which by 2011 had boosted the country’s natural gas production by
[Source link]: https://oilprice.com/Energy/Energy-General/Is-The-UAEs-Gas-Gamble-in-Syria-A-Triple-Win-for-Washington.html


[TITLE]BCG warns New Zealand gas supply could halve again within five years:
[TEXT]
“The structural gas supply decline is expected to continue, driven by ageing offshore fields such as Mauī, Kupe and Pohokura, the Ahuroa gas storage downgrade and potential exit of [methanol exporter] Methanex.”

BCG said these factors put pressure on affordability and security of gas and indirectly, the affordability and security of electricity.

Gas – which has a lower carbon footprint than coal – is responsible for
[Source link]: https://www.nzherald.co.nz/business/companies/energy/bcg-warns-new-zealand-gas-supply-could-halve-again-within-five-years/3TJCDAAVBRARVNZAFTKWNCJ5MQ/


[Failed to load article at https://www.euractiv.com/news/ammonias-potential-as-a-clean-fuel-for-deep-sea-shipping-gets-new-policy-focus/]


[TITLE]China Tests Floating Devices That Turn Raindrops into Electricity:
[TEXT]
Chinese scientists have built and tested a floating droplet electricity generator (DEG) to turn the kinetic energy of raindrops into renewable power.

Unlike conventional DEGs, which are used on land and are heavier and costlier, the floating device developed by researchers at the Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics (NUAA), with the support of Chinese state and provincial funding and programs, uses water for both structural and electric-generation components.

In the research, published in the November issue of National Science Review, the scientists claim that the new device is lightweight and scalable and doesn’t need many of the heavy and expensive components that traditional DEGs have.

The floating device is thus lightweight and supported by the water surface on which it floats, making it cheaper and more sustainable without the use of heavy rigid structures.

The electrical output from the floating device is similar to that achieved with the conventional DEGs, according to the research.

Most importantly, the floating generator is scalable, say the scientists who have developed and tested it on the Donghua lake in Nanjing, China.

Related: Lithium Prices Surge as China Signals Sharper Demand Rebound

The novel device demonstrated an 87% reduction in material weight and a 50% cost savings compared to conventional DEGs. It also showed great durability in different environments, the researchers say.

Tests have demonstrated that the floating device continued to function under a wide range of temperatures and salt levels, and even when exposed to natural lake water containing biofouling.

The scientific team also designed drainage holes to let water move downward using the strong surface tension of the water. The drainage holes help remove droplets and water levels that could interfere with the electrical performance.

Scalability and performance are also key advantages of the floating device. Researchers found it charged capacitors to useful voltages within minutes. This suggests that the floating generator could power small electronic devices and wireless sensors.

With additional research and development, the floating droplet device could provide renewable energy from raindrops when installed on lakes, reservoirs, or waters close to coasts without taking up any land.

“We anticipate this work will open up a new avenue of harnessing water-like natural materials to construct hydrovoltaic devices and advance land-free large-scale applications,” the researchers wrote in the introduction to the study.

“By letting water itself play both structural and electrical roles, we've unlocked a new strategy for droplet electricity generation that is lightweight, cost-effective, and scalable,” Wanlin Guo, a corresponding author of the study, said, as carried by Science China Press.

“This opens the door to land-free hydrovoltaic systems that can complement other renewable technologies like solar and wind.”

China boasts leadership in the global push toward clean energy—and rightly so. Its electric vehicle sales are surging and already outselling conventional cars, while no country is close to the massive Chinese investment in renewable energy and storage, and the record-setting additions of solar and wind power capacity.

China has cemented its position as the world’s single largest investor in energy, the International Energy Agency (IEA) said in its World Energy Investment 2025 report.

“Today, China is by far the largest energy investor globally, spending twice as much on energy as the European Union – and almost as much as the EU and United States combined,” IEA Executive Director Fatih Birol said in the June report.

“Record-breaking renewables investment in China continues, advancing in tandem with the expansion of grid and storage for renewables while keeping coal in the mix,” the agency said.

Clean generation growth led by solar and wind met 84% of China’s electricity demand growth in 2024, clean energy think tank Ember said in a September report. In the first half of 2025 clean energy growth exceeded demand growth, cutting fossil fuel use by 2%, according to Ember.

By Charles Kennedy for Oilprice.com

More Top Reads From Oilprice.com
[Source link]: https://oilprice.com/Energy/Energy-General/China-Tests-Floating-Devices-That-Turn-Raindrops-into-Electricity.html


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: bcg
symbol: BCG
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1763600916
name: bcg
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: china
name: china
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: new zealand
symbol: BZU.F
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1763600919
name: new zealand
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: uae
name: uae
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

[TITLE]Consumers Energy to invest more than $13B in renewables, distribution by 2029:
[TEXT]
Listen to the article 5 min This audio is auto-generated. Please let us know if you have feedback

: CMS Energy Q3 2025 By the numbers $1.68B Electric utility operating revenue, up 16% year over year. 10.4 TWh Weather-adjusted electricity deliveries, roughly flat year over year. 9 GW Large load pipeline, including 1 GW to 2 GW in “final stages” of development. $13.7B Planned investment in distribution and clean energy generation through 2029.

New large-load customers

In the third quarter, the electric utility that accounts for the lion’s share of CMS Energy’s revenue reported a 16% year-over-year increase in operating revenue, though electricity deliveries were largely flat since last year, the company said Oct. 30.

The Michigan-based company attributed the revenue increase — and corresponding growth in the parent company’s earnings per share — primarily to favorable weather and constructive regulatory developments in its home state.

But it has also interconnected 450 MW of new industrial loads in recent quarters,
[Source link]: https://www.utilitydive.com/news/consumers-energy-campbell-large-load-earnings/805778/


[TITLE]AI's Power Demand: Boom or Bubble? - Nepal Updates:
[TEXT]
The AI Boom and the Looming Energy Demand Crisis: Are Utilities Overestimating Needs?

The rapid expansion of the AI economy is driving projections of electricity demand that could double or triple in just a few years. Utility companies are citing the needs of massive data centers as the primary cause, leading to concerns
[Source link]: https://nep123.com/ais-power-demand-boom-or-bubble/


[TITLE]Future data centers are driving up forecasts for energy demand. States want proof they’ll get built:
[TEXT]
By MARC LEVY

HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) — The forecasts are eye-popping: utilities saying they’ll need two or three times more electricity within a few years to power massive new data centers that are feeding a fast-growing AI economy.

But the challenges — some say the impossibility — of building new power plants to meet that demand so quickly has set off alarm bells for lawmakers, policymakers and regulators who wonder if those utility forecasts can be trusted.

One burning question is whether the forecasts are based on data center projects that may never get built — eliciting concern that regular ratepayers could be stuck with the bill to build unnecessary power plants and grid infrastructure at a cost of billions of dollars.

The scrutiny comes as analysts warn of the risk of an artificial intelligence investment bubble that’s ballooned tech stock prices and could burst.

Meanwhile, consumer advocates are finding that ratepayers in some areas — such as the mid-Atlantic electricity grid, which encompasses all or parts of 13 states stretching from New Jersey to Illinois, as well as Washington, D.C. — are already underwriting the cost to supply power to data centers, some of them built, some not.

“There’s speculation in there,” said Joe Bowring, who heads Monitoring Analytics, the independent market watchdog in the mid-Atlantic grid territory. “Nobody really knows. Nobody has been looking carefully enough at the forecast to know what’s speculative, what’s double-counting, what’s real, what’s not.”

Suspicions
[Source link]: https://www.readingeagle.com/2025/11/17/big-tech-energy-demand/


[TITLE]Decoding the Fine Print: An Investor’s Guide to Energy Contracts:
[TEXT]
For traditional energy, investors must focus on the Net Revenue Interest and post-production deductions to calculate true cash flow, while for renewables, the quality of the PPA (fixed vs. indexed) and the creditworthiness of the off-taker are the most critical factors.

The primary dilemma for investors is choosing between companies exposed to volatile spot prices, known as merchant risk, and those that have engineered revenue certainty through fixed-price agreements, which command premium valuations.

A company's contract portfolio, including Power Purchase Agreements for renewables and leases/PSAs for traditional energy, is a more accurate indicator of financial stability and valuation than its headline production or resource capacity.

We spend a lot of our time talking
[Source link]: https://oilprice.com/Energy/Energy-General/Decoding-the-Fine-Print-An-Investors-Guide-to-Energy-Contracts.html


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: abraxas power corp
name: abraxas power corp
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: consumers energy
symbol: CMS PR B
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1763600925
name: consumers energy
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: gridware
name: gridware
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: tiger global
name: tiger global
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

