[TITLE]As Europe rearms, Anduril is trying to break through in the UK by co-funding major programs, cutting manufacturing deals, and billing itself as “Anglo-American”:
[TEXT]

[Source link]: https://biztoc.com/x/aacf47f0bf678b9a


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: anduril
name: anduril
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

[TITLE]Ken Griffin: Europe’s capital markets not “robust enough” #shorts #europe #markets #kengriffin:
[TEXT]
There is no doubt that the Western world needs Europe to be more successful,” Citadel founder Ken Griffin told Bloomberg's Dani ...

This story appeared on youtube.com , 2025-12-17 01:11:12.
[Source link]: https://biztoc.com/x/b2b4eeaa86c4287d


[TITLE]Ken Griffin: Europe’s capital markets not “robust enough” #shorts #europe #markets #kengriffin:
[TEXT]
“There is no doubt that the Western world needs Europe to be more successful,” Citadel founder Ken Griffin told Bloomberg’s Dani Burger at a conference in Paris Tuesday, noting that Europe's capital markets are not "deep and robust enough" https://bloom.bg/3ME3BF0

----------

Like this…

This story appeared on youtube.com , 2025-12-16 18:07:23.
[Source link]: https://biztoc.com/x/11434d9ddbaa657f


[TITLE]EU Lawmakers to Weigh Easing Capital Rules on Safest Bank Bonds:
[TEXT]

[Source link]: https://biztoc.com/x/eda9cba4843002d5


[TITLE]‘Emily in Paris’ Star Lily Collins on Sparking a Feud Between the French Capital and Rome With Season 5 Location: ‘I Never Expected in a Million Years We’d Be Part of a European Political Love Triangl:
[TEXT]
“Emily in Paris” has grown up. The series celebrated its anticipated Season 5 at a big premiere at the Grand Rex theater in Paris, with Netflix co-CEO Ted Sarandos and the series creator Darren Star, just a few hours after receiving the prestigious Legion of Honor from French President Emmanuel Macron.

Sarandos and Star were joined by the hit show’s dashing cast dressed in full fashion, including Lily Collins, Ashley Park, Philippine Leroy-Beaulieu, Lucas Bravo, Lucien Laviscount, Eugenio Franceschini and series newcomer Minnie Driver and Michele Laroque. The rest of the cast, Samuel Arnold, Bruno Gouery, William Abadie, Paul Forman and Arnaud Binard were also there.

While the first two episodes that screened at the premiere unfold in Rome – where Emily (Collins) has just moved to run the Grateau office and live the dolce vita with her Italian beau Marcello — Star told the crowd to rest assured that the show returns to Paris later on.

Popular on Variety

Collins, radiant in a black Armani gown, joked
[Source link]: https://variety.com/2025/tv/global/emily-in-paris-season-5-premiere-ted-sarandos-darren-star-1236609730/


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: citadel
symbol: CCTL
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1766106868
name: citadel
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: netflix
symbol: NFLX
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1766106869
name: netflix
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

[TITLE]Myanmar has declared a ‘zero tolerance’ policy for cyberscams, but the fraud goes on:
[TEXT]
It looked like a turning point in the global fight against scams. Myanmar’s military leadership, under growing international pressure, vowed to wipe out the industrial-scale cyberscam centers that have taken root in the country. They started by raiding and then bombing KK Park — a notorious compound that has become a symbol of impunity in the battle against one of the most lucrative criminal industries in the world.

WATCH: How human trafficking victims are forced to run ‘pig butchering’ investment scams

It’s too early to say whether KK Park will be abandoned, repurposed or rebuilt over time. But even if KK Park were to close, it’s just one of around 30 scam compounds along Myanmar’s border with Thailand — one indication that the crackdown may not turn out to be as deep or long-lasting as Myanmar’s military rulers would like it to appear.

The Associated Press found that at least two scam compounds in the area continued to use Starlink to get online even after SpaceX announced it had cut off service. And there are other signs the scam industry is adapting fast: The physical damage to KK Park sent thousands of workers scattering to other scam companies in Myanmar and abroad, interviews with current and former scam center workers show. Telegram is popping with job ads for newly displaced workers. And work has continued uninterrupted at other scam centers in Myanmar, where people trafficked from around the world still wait to be rescued.

“Even if you destroy buildings, if you haven’t arrested the heads of the transnational syndicates behind this, seized their wealth and put them in jail, it’s not a real crackdown yet,” said Jay Kritiya, the coordinator of the Civil Society Network for Human Trafficking Victim Assistance.

A turning point?

Myanmar state media announced the raid on KK Park on Oct. 20, which was followed by a weekslong demolition campaign. In November, Myanmar’s military rulers pledged to “eradicate scam activities from their roots.” State media broadcast images of wreckage and soldiers standing with dozens of seized Starlink terminals. They then went after Shwe Kokko, another notorious compound that’s been in the crosshairs of U.S. authorities. SpaceX announced it cut off access to more than 2,500 Starlink units in Myanmar, where they have been widely used by scammers to get online. And Meta said this month it had taken down 2,000 Facebook accounts used by scammers in Myanmar.

It looked as if growing American pressure on foreign scam centers through sanctions, prosecutions and a new, high-level Scam Center Strike Force, was having swift impact as Myanmar prepares for national elections, which have been widely criticized as a sham effort to legitimize the army’s 2021 seizure of power.

Myanmar has said the demolition at KK Park — and raids at additional scam sites — are meant to ensure that criminal activity never returns. This month the government created a high-level task force to enact what it calls a “zero tolerance” policy against scams. The state-run Global New Light of Myanmar on Dec. 15 devoted five full pages to coverage of a press conference showcasing what it described as the government’s aggressive efforts to stop fraud, and characterized cyberscams as the work of foreign criminal networks that have taken root in lawless borderlands controlled by insurgents.

Government officials said that by Dec. 13, 413 buildings in KK Park had been “demolished” and the remaining 222 would be cleared as well. Detailed visual analysis of the first wave of demolition, which the government says is complete, shows that 31 structures were flattened. At least 78 more were partially damaged, according to the Center for Information Resilience (CIR), a London-based nonprofit focused on exposing human rights violations.

More than half the buildings were damaged by heavy machinery, which often left roofs, ceilings and layers between floors intact, said Guy Fusfus, an investigator at Myanmar Witness, a CIR project. “There may be an intention to reconstruct and reuse these buildings,” he said in an email.

New satellite imagery shows that most buildings in KK Park appeared wholly or partially intact on Dec. 4, even as demolition had spread to other sections of the compound. Once home to thousands of workers, many victims of human trafficking, the streets of KK Park appeared empty. Where all those people went — and what that portends for the future of a criminal industry the FBI says cost Americans more than $16 billion last year — remain open questions.

WATCH: As global migration surges, trafficking has become a multi-billion dollar business

“This isn’t just breaking windows and moving on. You can’t come in and restart operations here at the same scale as before,” said Eric Heintz, a global analyst at the International Justice Mission, a Washington, D.C.-based NGO, who reviewed satellite images of the damage. “But we don’t know if that activity is just going to be displaced to other locations.”

Myanmar’s track record of lasting enforcement is poor. Raids in response to Chinese pressure earlier this year failed to contain the growth of scam compounds, according to C4ADS, a U.S.-based nonprofit that takes a data-driven approach to conflict analysis. Over 7,000 scam center workers were released as part of that purge, according to the U.N. Office on Drugs and Crime, but the scams kept on running.

C4ADS examined satellite imagery of 21 known scam compounds in Myawaddy Township and found that 14 of them — including KK Park — had shown construction or expansion since January. Some solar panels also appeared — a step toward energy independence that could blunt the impact of crackdowns from neighboring Thailand, which has occasionally cut off power.

“This continued growth of scam compounds is emblematic of the junta’s inability to rein in the industry within Myanmar,” said Michael Di Girolamo, a C4ADS analyst focused on cybercrime.

Analysts say that some of the same people who led the raid on KK Park have profited from scams over the years. KK Park, like most scam compounds along the Thai border, operates under the protection of the Karen Border Guard Force — also known as the Karen National Army — an armed militia made up of ethnic Karen people who live in eastern Myanmar that is affiliated with the Myanmar military, according to U.S. and European government sanctions notices.

Jason Tower, a senior expert at the Global Initiative Against Transnational Organized Crime, said the action at KK Park was a way for Myanmar’s military leadership to relieve pressure, primarily from the U.S. and China, and continue to host highly lucrative criminal activity. “There’s no real political will to crack down,” he said.

A month after KK Park was raided, another scam center fell, far from the glare of government propaganda. On Nov. 21, forces of the Karen National Union, a rebel group opposed to Myanmar’s military leadership, stormed a scam compound called Shunda Park in an area controlled by a pro-government militia.

“This looks much more like a real crackdown on crime,” Tower said.

While Myanmar state television broadcast images of a steamroller crushing rows of scammers’ computers, the Karen National Union gathered 604 mobile phones, bank cards, computers and other evidence from Shunda and handed them over to Thai authorities for investigation.

“The Myanmar military just destroys everything,” KNU spokesperson Padoh Saw Taw Nee told AP. “It’s clear they don’t want people to know who is controlling it.”

Requests for comment to a Myanmar military government spokesman went unanswered. But the Global New Light of Myanmar called claims that evidence was being destroyed “astonishing.” All evidence was properly collected, the paper said, and would be “released as appropriate in future public statements.”

Where did all the people go?

Since the raid on KK Park, the Thai military said around 1,500 people who worked there have made it out through official channels in Thailand — a fraction of the total workforce, estimated to be in the tens of thousands.

The whereabouts of the rest are unknown. Some followed company bosses to other locations, four workers who fled KK Park told AP. They spoke on condition of anonymity, fearing for their safety.

One Filipino worker said he and 20 others who jumped the fence at KK Park were picked up by government-allied forces and made it to Thailand. But five Ethiopians on his team stayed behind. “They wanted to go to another company,” he explained. He said he overheard his boss, who was Chinese, talk
[Source link]: https://www.pbs.org/newshour/world/myanmar-has-declared-a-zero-tolerance-policy-for-cyberscams-but-the-fraud-goes-on


[TITLE]Myanmar declares a “zero tolerance” policy for cyberscams. But the fraud goes on:
[TEXT]
This combination of satellite image shows KK Park along Myanmar's border with Thailand on Sept. 11, 2025, left, and Nov. 14, 2025. (Planet Labs via AP)

This combination of satellite image shows KK Park along Myanmar's border with Thailand on Sept. 11, 2025, left, and Nov. 14, 2025. (Planet Labs via AP)

This combination of satellite image shows KK Park along Myanmar's border with Thailand on Sept. 11, 2025, left, and Nov. 14, 2025. (Planet Labs via AP)

This combination of satellite image shows KK Park along Myanmar's border with Thailand on Sept. 11, 2025, left, and Nov. 14, 2025. (Planet Labs via AP)

It looked like a turning point in the global fight against scams. Myanmar’s military leadership, under growing international pressure, vowed to wipe out the industrial-scale cyberscam centers that have taken root in the country. They started by raiding and then bombing KK Park — a notorious compound that has become a symbol of impunity in the battle against one of the most lucrative criminal industries in the world.

It’s too early to say whether KK Park will be abandoned, repurposed or rebuilt over time. But even if KK Park were to close, it’s just one of around 30 scam compounds along Myanmar’s border with Thailand — one indication that the crackdown may not turn out to be as deep or long-lasting as Myanmar’s military rulers would like it to appear.

The Associated Press found that at least two scam compounds in the area continued to use Starlink to get online even after SpaceX announced it had cut off service. And there are other signs the scam industry is adapting fast: The physical damage to KK Park sent thousands of workers scattering to other scam companies in Myanmar and abroad, interviews with current and former scam center workers show. Telegram is popping with job ads for newly displaced workers. And work has continued uninterrupted at other scam centers in Myanmar, where people trafficked from around the world still wait to be rescued.

“Even if you destroy buildings, if you haven’t arrested the heads of the transnational syndicates behind this, seized their wealth and put them in jail, it’s not a real crackdown yet,” said Jay Kritiya, the coordinator of the Civil Society Network for Human Trafficking Victim Assistance.

Myanmar state media announced the raid on KK Park on Oct. 20, which was followed by a weekslong demolition campaign. In November, Myanmar’s military rulers pledged to “eradicate scam activities from their roots.” State media broadcast images of wreckage and soldiers standing with dozens of seized Starlink terminals. They then went after Shwe Kokko, another notorious compound that’s been in the crosshairs of U.S. authorities. SpaceX announced it cut off access to more than 2,500 Starlink units in Myanmar, where they have been widely used by scammers to get online. And Meta said this month it had taken down 2,000 Facebook accounts used by scammers in Myanmar.

It looked as if growing American pressure on foreign scam centers through sanctions, prosecutions and a new, high-level Scam Center Strike Force, was having swift impact as Myanmar prepares for national elections, which have been widely criticized as a sham effort to legitimize the army’s 2021 seizure of power.

Myanmar has said the demolition at KK Park — and raids at additional scam sites — are meant to ensure that criminal activity never returns. This month the government created a high-level task force to enact what it calls a “zero tolerance” policy against scams. The state-run Global New Light of Myanmar on Dec. 15 devoted five full pages to coverage of a press conference showcasing what it described as the government’s aggressive efforts to stop fraud, and characterized cyberscams as the work of foreign criminal networks that have taken root in lawless borderlands controlled by insurgents.

Government officials said that by Dec. 13, 413 buildings in KK Park had been “demolished” and the remaining 222 would be cleared as well. Detailed visual analysis of the first wave of demolition, which the government says is complete, shows that 31 structures were flattened. At least 78 more were partially damaged, according to the Center for Information Resilience (CIR), a London-based nonprofit focused on exposing human rights violations.

More than half the buildings were damaged by heavy machinery, which often left roofs, ceilings and layers between floors intact, said Guy Fusfus, an investigator at Myanmar Witness, a CIR project. “There may be an intention to reconstruct and reuse these buildings,” he said in an email.

New satellite imagery shows that most buildings in KK Park appeared wholly or partially intact on Dec. 4, even as demolition had spread to other sections of the compound. Once home to thousands of workers, many victims of human trafficking, the streets of KK Park appeared empty. Where all those people went — and what that portends for the future of a criminal industry the FBI says cost Americans more than $16 billion last year — remain open questions.

“This isn’t just breaking windows and moving on. You can’t come in and restart operations here at the same scale as before,” said Eric Heintz, a global analyst at the International Justice Mission, a Washington, D.C.-based NGO, who reviewed satellite images of the damage. “But we don’t know if that activity is just going to be displaced to other locations.”

Myanmar’s track record of lasting enforcement is poor. Raids in response to Chinese pressure earlier this year failed to contain the growth of scam compounds, according to C4ADS, a U.S.-based nonprofit that takes a data-driven approach to conflict analysis. Over 7,000 scam center workers were released as part of that purge, according to the U.N. Office on Drugs and Crime, but the scams kept on running.

C4ADS examined satellite imagery of 21 known scam compounds in Myawaddy Township and found that 14 of them — including KK Park — had shown construction or expansion since January. Some solar panels also appeared — a step toward energy independence that could blunt the impact of crackdowns from neighboring Thailand, which has occasionally cut off power.

“This continued growth of scam compounds is emblematic of the junta’s inability to rein in the industry within Myanmar,” said Michael Di Girolamo, a C4ADS analyst focused on cybercrime.

Analysts say that some of the same people who led the raid on KK Park have profited from scams over the years. KK Park, like most scam compounds along the Thai border, operates under the protection of the Karen Border Guard Force — also known as the Karen National Army — an armed militia made up of ethnic Karen people who live in eastern Myanmar that is affiliated with the Myanmar military, according to U.S. and European government sanctions notices.

Jason Tower, a senior expert at the Global Initiative Against Transnational Organized Crime, said the action at KK Park was a way for Myanmar’s military leadership to relieve pressure, primarily from the U.S. and China, and continue to host highly lucrative criminal activity. “There’s no real political will to crack down,” he said.

A month after KK Park was raided, another scam center fell, far from the glare of government propaganda. On Nov. 21, forces of the Karen National Union, a rebel group opposed to Myanmar’s military leadership, stormed a scam compound called Shunda Park in an area controlled by a pro-government militia.

“This looks much more like a real crackdown on crime,” Tower said.

While Myanmar state television broadcast images of a steamroller crushing rows of scammers’ computers, the Karen National Union gathered 604 mobile phones, bank cards, computers and other evidence from Shunda and handed them over to Thai authorities for investigation.

“The Myanmar military just destroys everything,” KNU spokesperson Padoh Saw Taw Nee told AP. “It’s clear they don’t want people to know who is controlling it.”

Requests for comment to a Myanmar military government spokesman went unanswered. But the Global New Light of Myanmar called claims that evidence was being destroyed “astonishing.” All evidence was properly collected, the paper said, and would be “released as appropriate in future public statements.”

Since the raid on KK Park, the Thai military said around 1,500 people who worked there have made it out through official channels in Thailand — a fraction of the total workforce, estimated to be in the tens of thousands.

The whereabouts of the rest are unknown. Some followed company bosses to other locations, four workers who fled KK Park told AP. They spoke on condition of anonymity, fearing for their safety.

One Filipino worker said he and 20 others who jumped the fence at KK Park were picked up by government-allied forces and made it to Thailand. But five Ethiopians on his team stayed behind. “They wanted to go to another company,” he explained. He said he overheard his boss, who was Chinese, talk
[Source link]: https://abcnews.go.com/Technology/wireStory/myanmar-declares-zero-tolerance-policy-cyberscams-fraud-128486739


[TITLE]Trends in Automated E-Commerce Packaging Market 2025-35:
[TEXT]
Ottawa, Dec. 17, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The global automated e-commerce packaging market reported a value of USD 852.75 million in 2025, and according to estimates, it will reach USD 2708.11 million by 2034, as outlined in a study from Towards Packaging, a sister firm of Precedence Research. The automated e-commerce packaging market is expanding as retailers deploy robotics, AI, and smart systems to boost fulfillment efficiency, reduce costs, and meet sustainability demands while handling rising online order volumes.

Request Research Report Built Around Your Goals: sales@towardspackaging.com

What is Meant by Automated E-Commerce Packaging?

The market is driven by rapid growth in online shopping, rising order volumes, labor shortages, and the need for faster fulfillment. Companies adopt automation to reduce packaging time, minimize errors, lower operating costs, improve scalability, and meet sustainability goals through optimized material usage. The market refers to systems and technologies that automatically size, pack, seal, label, and sort products for shipment.

It includes robotics, conveyor systems, AI-enabled software, and smart machines designed to streamline warehouse operations, ensure packaging consistency, protect products, and enhance overall logistics efficiency. Demand is fueled by labor shortages and the need for optimized packaging workflows across sectors such as consumer goods and healthcare. North America leads the market with the largest share, driven by its mature e-commerce ecosystem, advanced infrastructure, and high technology adoption.

Get All the Details in Our Solutions - Access Report Sample: https://www.towardspackaging.com/download-sample/5301

Private Industry Investments for Automated E-Commerce Packaging:

Amcor plc: The company strategically invested in ePac Flexible Packaging in September 2022 to enhance its shareholding and leverage ePac's digital printing and flexible packaging solutions. Mondi Group: Mondi partnered with Heiber + Schröder in September 2022 to introduce a rapid automated packaging machine capable of handling up to 500 parcels per hour for online retail operations. Ranpak: Ranpak launched its automated solution, Cut'it! Evo, in September 2022, is designed to increase packaging production, lower operational expenses, and improve sustainability through optimized material usage. Sealed Air: In May 2019, Sealed Air acquired Automated Packaging Systems, a manufacturer of pouch packaging and loading systems, to expand its breadth of automated solutions and sustainable packaging offerings. Smurfit WestRock: Formed from the 2024 merger of Smurfit Kappa and WestRock, the combined entity creates large-scale opportunities for standardized automation across its extensive network of facilities.

What Are the Latest Key Trends in the Automated E-Commerce Packaging Market?

1. AI-driven smart packaging systems

AI and machine-learning algorithms are increasingly integrated into packaging lines to analyze order patterns, select optimal box sizes, reduce void fill, minimize errors, and improve overall packaging speed and operational decision-making.

2. Right-sized and on-demand packaging

Manufacturers are adopting automated machines that create custom-sized boxes in real time, reducing material waste, lowering shipping costs, improving sustainability, and enhancing product protection during transportation.

3. Robotics and collaborative automation (cobots)

Robots and cobots are being deployed for picking, packing, sealing, and palletizing tasks, helping companies address labor shortages, increase throughput, improve worker safety, and maintain consistent packaging quality.

4. Sustainable and eco-friendly packaging integration

Automated systems are being designed to handle recyclable, biodegradable, and paper-based materials, supporting corporate sustainability goals while reducing plastic usage and aligning with stricter environmental regulations.

5. High-speed packaging for same-day delivery

To meet consumer expectations for faster delivery, companies are investing in high-speed automated packaging lines that integrate seamlessly with fulfillment centers and enable rapid order processing and dispatch.

6. Integration with warehouse management systems (WMS)

Automated packaging solutions are increasingly connected with WMS and order management software, enabling real-time data exchange, inventory accuracy, demand forecasting, and smoother end-to-end fulfillment workflows.

7. Modular and scalable automation solutions

Vendors are offering modular packaging systems that can be easily expanded as order volumes grow, allowing e-commerce companies to scale operations efficiently without completely overhauling existing infrastructure.

What is the Potential Growth Rate of the Automated E-Commerce Packaging Market?

The growth of automated e-commerce packaging is driven by the rapid expansion of online retail and rising order volumes, which require faster and more efficient fulfillment operations. Increasing labor shortages and rising workforce costs push companies to adopt automation to maintain productivity and consistency. Growing demand for same-day and next-day delivery encourages high-speed, accurate packaging solutions.

Sustainability pressures also drive adoption, as automated systems enable right-sized packaging and reduced material waste. Additionally, advancements in robotics, AI, and warehouse integration technologies support smarter, scalable, and cost-efficient packaging operations across e-commerce supply chains.

More Insights of Towards Packaging:

Regional Analysis:

Who is the Leader in the Automated E-Commerce Packaging Market?

North America dominates the market due to its highly developed e-commerce ecosystem, widespread adoption of advanced automation technologies, and strong presence of major online retailers and fulfillment centers. High labor costs, persistent workforce shortages, and early investments in robotics, AI-enabled packaging systems, and smart warehousing infrastructure further accelerate automation adoption across the region.

U.S. Automated E-Commerce Packaging Market Trends

The U.S. dominates the North American market due to its massive e-commerce penetration, concentration of global online retailers, and extensive fulfillment and distribution networks. High labor costs and workforce shortages accelerate automation adoption, while strong investments in robotics, AI, and warehouse automation, supported by advanced logistics infrastructure and technology-focused vendors, further strengthen market leadership.

How is the opportunity in the Rise of the Asia Pacific in the Automated E-Commerce Packaging Industry?

Asia-Pacific is the fastest-growing region due to rapidly expanding e-commerce adoption, rising labor costs, and increasing demand for efficient fulfillment. Growing investments in automation, expanding manufacturing bases, and supportive infrastructure development in countries like China and India further accelerate the deployment of automated packaging technologies across logistics and retail sectors.

China Automated E-Commerce Packaging Market Trends

China dominates the market due to its massive online retail volume, highly developed logistics and fulfillment networks, and strong domestic manufacturing capabilities. Rapid adoption of robotics and smart automation, combined with government support for industrial automation and cost-efficient technology production, further strengthens China’s leadership.

How Big is the Success of the Europe Automated E-Commerce Packaging Market?

Europe is a notably growing region in the market due to rising online retail penetration, strong focus on sustainability, and strict packaging waste regulations. Increasing labor costs and shortages are driving automation adoption, while advanced manufacturing capabilities, growing investments in smart warehouses, and rapid expansion of cross-border e-commerce further support market growth across the region.

The UK Automated E-Commerce Packaging Market Trends

The UK dominates the European market due to its high e-commerce penetration, advanced logistics infrastructure, and strong presence of major online retailers and fulfillment centers. Rising labor costs, demand for fast delivery, early adoption of warehouse automation, and emphasis on sustainable packaging solutions further drive market leadership.

How Crucial is the Role of Latin America in Automated E-Commerce Packaging Market?

Latin America is growing at a considerable rate in the market due to increasing internet penetration, rapid expansion of online retail platforms, and improving logistics infrastructure. Rising labor costs, growing urbanization, and investments in warehouse automation by regional and global e-commerce players are further accelerating adoption across the region.

How Big is the Opportunity for the Growth of the Middle East and Africa Automated E-Commerce Packaging Market?

The Middle East and Africa present significant opportunities for automated e-commerce packaging due to rapid urbanization, rising internet and smartphone adoption, expanding online retail platforms, and improving logistics networks. Governments and private investors are funding warehouse modernization, while growing cross-border trade, labor shortages, and demand for faster, reliable delivery encourage companies to deploy scalable, cost-efficient packaging automation solutions across the region.

Segment Outlook

Type Insights

What made the Fully-Automated Segment Dominant in the Automated E-Commerce Packaging Market in 2024?

The fully automated segment dominates the market due to its ability to deliver high-speed, consistent, and error-free packaging for large order volumes. These systems significantly reduce labor dependence, operational costs, and packaging waste while enabling seamless integration with warehouse management systems, robotics, and high-throughput fulfillment centers.

The semi-automated segment is the fastest-growing in the market as it offers a cost-effective entry into automation for small and mid-sized businesses. These systems improve efficiency while retaining operational flexibility, require lower upfront investment, and allow gradual scalability, making them attractive for warehouses transitioning from manual to fully automated packaging operations.

Application Insights

How the Food & Beverage Industry Dominated the Automated E-Commerce Packaging Market in 2024?

The food and beverages dominate the market due to high order volumes, frequent repeat purchases, and strict requirements for hygiene, consistency, and product protection. Automated packaging ensures faster processing, accurate sealing and labeling, reduced contamination risk, and efficient handling of diverse packaging formats for perishable and non-perishable products.

The consumer electronics segment is the fastest-growing in the market due to rising online sales of high-value devices and accessories. Automated packaging ensures precise box sizing, enhanced product protection, reduced damage rates, and efficient handling of complex, fragile items while supporting fast delivery and scalable fulfillment operations.

Recent Breakthroughs in the Automated E-Commerce Packaging Industry

In April 2025 , Packsize completed the acquisition of Sparck Technologies, a strategic move that strengthened its portfolio of high-throughput, fit-to-size automated packaging solutions. This acquisition allows Packsize to integrate Sparck’s innovative machinery, expand global reach, and offer more efficient, flexible, and scalable automated packaging systems to e-commerce and logistics clients, enhancing operational efficiency and sustainability.

, Packsize completed the acquisition of Sparck Technologies, a strategic move that strengthened its portfolio of high-throughput, fit-to-size automated packaging solutions. This acquisition allows Packsize to integrate Sparck’s innovative machinery, expand global reach, and offer more efficient, flexible, and scalable automated packaging systems to e-commerce and logistics clients, enhancing operational efficiency and sustainability. In March 2025 , at ProMat and LogiMAT trade shows, Packsize and CMC showcased and launched new automated packaging technologies. Innovations included the Packsize X6 right-sized packaging system and the CMC Super Vertical bagger. These technologies improve packaging accuracy, reduce material waste, increase throughput, and demonstrate how automation is transforming e-commerce fulfillment centers with smarter, faster, and more sustainable solutions.

, at ProMat and LogiMAT trade shows, Packsize and CMC showcased and launched new automated packaging technologies. Innovations included the Packsize X6 right-sized packaging system and the CMC Super Vertical bagger. These technologies improve packaging accuracy, reduce material waste, increase throughput, and demonstrate how automation is transforming e-commerce fulfillment centers with smarter, faster, and more sustainable solutions. In August 2025, Sparck, now part of Packsize, expanded deployment of its CVP Impack automated packaging machines at WebstaurantStore facilities in the U.S. This real-world implementation highlights growing adoption of advanced automated systems in e-commerce fulfillment. It demonstrates how companies are leveraging high-speed, precise, and scalable packaging technology to improve efficiency, reduce labor dependence, and optimize supply chain operations.

Elevate your packaging strategy with Towards Packaging. Enhance efficiency and achieve superior results - schedule a call today: https://www.towardspackaging.com/schedule-meeting

Top Companies in the Global Automated E-Commerce Packaging Market & Their Offerings:

Tier 1:

BVM Brunner: Manufactures high-speed, fully automatic paper and film wrapping systems that create custom-sized shipping bags from rolls.

Manufactures high-speed, fully automatic paper and film wrapping systems that create custom-sized shipping bags from rolls. WestRock: Supplies automated fiber-based systems like BoxSizer that adjust box heights to match product dimensions for material efficiency.

Supplies automated fiber-based systems like BoxSizer that adjust box heights to match product dimensions for material efficiency. Sealed Air: Offers Autobag high-speed automated bagging systems integrated with smart digital printing and labeling technologies.

Offers Autobag high-speed automated bagging systems integrated with smart digital printing and labeling technologies. Pregis: Provides the Sharp line of automated poly-bagging machines designed to maximize throughput and minimize manual labor.

Provides the Sharp line of automated poly-bagging machines designed to maximize throughput and minimize manual labor. Sparck Technologies: Produces the CVP Everest, a high-capacity machine that measures, folds, and seals custom fit-to-size boxes for every order.

Produces the CVP Everest, a high-capacity machine that measures, folds, and seals custom fit-to-size boxes for every order. Maripak: Delivers the Impack Pro series, which automates weighing, right-size packing, and labeling for high-volume e-commerce fulfillment.

Delivers the Impack Pro series, which automates weighing, right-size packing, and labeling for high-volume e-commerce fulfillment. CMC Machinery: Engineering leaders in "Box-on-Demand" technology, providing high-speed systems that create tailor-made boxes for multi-item orders.

Engineering leaders in "Box-on-Demand" technology, providing high-speed systems that create tailor-made boxes for multi-item orders. Packsize: Specializes in "Right-sized Packaging on Demand" systems that manufacture custom corrugated boxes instantly at the pack station.

Specializes in "Right-sized Packaging on Demand" systems that manufacture custom corrugated boxes instantly at the pack station. Panotec: Features versatile on-demand box-making machines that produce custom corrugated packaging to eliminate the need for pre-made box inventory.

Tier 2:

Tension Packaging and Automation

ProMach, Ranpak

Smurfit Kappa

Dongguan YiCheng Automation

JR Automation

Jiangsu Bealead Intelligent Technology

Shenzhen Chuangqi Intelligent Equipment

Segment Covered in the Report

By Type

Fully-automated

Semi-automated

By Application

Food & Beverage

Cosmetics

Apparel and Footwear

Consumer Electronics

Home Appliances

Household Products

Pharmaceuticals

Others

By Region

North America : U.S. Canada Mexico Rest of North America

: South America : Brazil Argentina Rest of South America

: Europe:

Western Europe Germany Italy France Netherlands Spain Portugal Belgium Ireland UK Iceland Switzerland Poland Rest of Western Europe

Eastern Europe Austria Russia & Belarus Türkiye Albania Rest of Eastern Europe

Asia Pacific : China Taiwan India Japan Australia and New Zealand, ASEAN Countries (Singapore, Malaysia) South Korea Rest of APAC

: MEA: GCC Countries Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates (UAE) Qatar Kuwait Oman Bahrain South Africa Egypt Rest of MEA

Invest in Our Premium Strategic Solution: https://www.towardspackaging.com/checkout/5301

Request Research Report Built Around Your Goals: sales@towardspackaging.com
[Source link]: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/12/17/3207143/0/en/Trends-in-Automated-E-Commerce-Packaging-Market-2025-35.html


[TITLE]Low Power Wide Area Network Market is expected to generate a revenue of USD 119.17 Billion by 2032, Globally, at 56.20% CAGR: Verified Market Research®:
[TEXT]
Lewes, Delaware, Dec. 17, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Global Low Power Wide Area Network Market Size projected to grow at a CAGR of 56.20% from 2026 to 2032, according to a new report published by Verified Market Research®. The report reveals that the market was valued at USD 5.14 Billion in 2024 and expected to reach USD 119.17 Billion by the end of the forecast period.

For a detailed analysis of Industry Trends And Growth Drivers, Explore The Full Low Power Wide Area Network Market.

Browse in-depth TOC

202 - Pages

126 – Tables

37 – Figures

Global Low Power Wide Area Network Market Overview

Market Driver

1. Rapid Expansion of IoT and Smart Devices

The Low Power Wide Area Network (LPWAN) Market experiences strong growth as enterprises accelerate IoT deployments across industrial, commercial, and public sectors.

Organizations increasingly adopt IoT sensors for asset tracking, equipment monitoring, predictive maintenance, and environmental data collection.

LPWAN solutions such as LoRaWAN and NB-IoT support these large-scale networks by offering long-range coverage, low energy consumption, and extended battery life.

Businesses prefer LPWAN connectivity because it reduces maintenance costs, enhances device uptime, and enables seamless scaling across thousands of endpoints.

As IoT ecosystems expand, enterprises actively invest in advanced connectivity technologies and rely on market research reports to support procurement decisions and digital transformation roadmaps.

2. Rising Smart City Investments and Infrastructure Modernization

Governments and city planners worldwide continue to invest heavily in smart city initiatives that require reliable, energy-efficient connectivity.

LPWAN networks support critical urban applications including smart lighting, intelligent traffic systems, waste management, air quality monitoring, and public safety solutions.

The technology’s long-range coverage and low-power operation make it highly economical for cities with widespread sensor networks.

Public–private partnerships further accelerate LPWAN deployments, enabling telecom operators and IoT vendors to integrate their solutions into municipal infrastructure.

As urban modernization efforts scale, the demand for LPWAN-based connectivity grows, encouraging investors, policymakers, and technology buyers to obtain detailed market research for strategic decision-making.

3. Increasing Need for Cost-Efficient, Long-Range Connectivity

Enterprises across manufacturing, agriculture, utilities, logistics, and oil & gas sectors seek connectivity solutions that minimize operational expenses while supporting remote device networks.

LPWAN stands out as a cost-effective alternative to cellular networks, offering affordable deployment, lower subscription costs, and multi-year battery performance.

Its ability to transmit data over long distances with minimal power consumption makes it ideal for harsh or remote environments.

Industries utilize LPWAN for pipeline monitoring, fleet management, livestock tracking, energy metering, and field equipment analytics.

This combination of low cost and long-range communication drives strong adoption, prompting IT leaders and procurement teams to explore detailed LPWAN market insights before making technology investments.

Download a free sample to access exclusive Insights, Data Charts, And Forecasts From The Low Power Wide Area Network Market Sample Report.

Market Restraints

1. Interoperability Issues Across LPWAN Technologies

The market faces significant challenges due to the lack of standardization across key LPWAN technologies such as LoRaWAN, Sigfox, and NB-IoT.

Each technology operates using different frequency bands, network architectures, and communication protocols.

These inconsistencies create integration difficulties for enterprises that manage multi-vendor or cross-border IoT deployments.

As a result, businesses often encounter higher implementation costs, longer deployment timelines, and limited flexibility when scaling operations.

These interoperability constraints reduce buyer confidence and increase the need for comprehensive market assessments before committing to LPWAN solutions.

2. Security Vulnerabilities and Data Protection Concerns

Security remains one of the most critical barriers affecting LPWAN adoption, especially within sectors handling sensitive or mission-critical data.

LPWAN networks, optimized for low-power operations, may include limited security layers compared to traditional cellular or broadband networks.

This raises concerns regarding threats such as device spoofing, signal interference, unauthorized access, and data breaches.

Industries like utilities, healthcare, manufacturing, and smart infrastructure demand stronger encryption standards and end-to-end security models.

These vulnerabilities often delay purchase decisions and compel organizations to evaluate cybersecurity risks through detailed market reports and vendor comparisons.

3. Limitations in Bandwidth and Data Transmission Capabilities

LPWAN technologies are engineered for low data throughput, which restricts their usage in applications requiring high bandwidth or frequent data transmission.

Industries relying on video analytics, real-time controls, or large data packets often find LPWAN insufficient for their operational needs.

This limitation forces enterprises to adopt hybrid connectivity models, combining LPWAN with cellular, Wi-Fi, or satellite networks.

Such complexity increases deployment costs and complicates network management strategies.

The constrained bandwidth of LPWAN remains a key challenge for widespread adoption, encouraging technology buyers to rely on detailed market intelligence before implementing large-scale connectivity solutions.

Geographical Dominance: The Low Power Wide Area Network (LPWAN) Market shows strong geographical dominance across key regions, led by North America with robust IoT adoption, advanced telecom infrastructure, and large-scale smart city projects. Europe accelerates growth through Industry 4.0 initiatives and strict energy-efficiency mandates. Meanwhile, Asia-Pacific emerges as the fastest-growing region, supported by rapid urbanization, expanding manufacturing hubs, and government-backed digital transformation. Rising investments across China, India, Japan, and South Korea further strengthen regional LPWAN deployments, creating high-value opportunities for B2B buyers and technology vendors.

Key Players

The “Global Low Power Wide Area Network Market” study report will provide a valuable insight with an emphasis on the global market. The major players in the market are Semtech (LoRa), Sigfox, Ingenu (OnChip), Huawei, NXP Semiconductors, Cisco, Eseye, Comcast.

Low Power Wide Area Network Market Segment Analysis

Based on the research, Verified Market Research has segmented the global market into Technology, Deployment, Industry Verticals, and Geography.

Low Power Wide Area Network Market, by Technology Narrowband IoT (NB IoT) LoRaWAN Sigfox Weightless

Low Power Wide Area Network Market, by Deployment

Public LPWAN Private LPWAN

Low Power Wide Area Network Market, by Industry Verticals

Smart Cities Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) Agriculture Utilities Healthcare Logistics and Transportation Retail & Supply Chain Environmental Monitoring

Low Power Wide Area Network Market, by Geography

North America U.S Canada Mexico Europe Germany France U.K Rest of Europe Asia Pacific China Japan India Rest of Asia Pacific ROW Middle East & Africa Latin America

Strategic Insight:

The Low Power Wide Area Network Market is expanding rapidly, driven by rising IoT adoption, smart city investments, and the demand for cost-efficient long-range connectivity. However, interoperability challenges, security concerns, and bandwidth limitations continue to influence vendor strategies and buyer decisions. Strong growth across North America, Europe, and Asia-Pacific creates attractive market entry opportunities for telecom providers, IoT vendors, and industrial adopters. Businesses aiming to invest in LPWAN solutions or purchase in-depth market research can leverage these insights to optimize deployment plans, strengthen competitive positioning, and capture emerging high-value opportunities in the global connectivity ecosystem.

To gain complete access with Corporate Or Enterprise Licensing, Visit The Low Power Wide Area Network Market.

Key Highlights of the Report:

Market Size & Forecast : In-depth analysis of current value and future projections

: In-depth analysis of current value and future projections Segment Analysis : Breaks down the market by Technology, Deployment, and Industry Verticals for focused strategy development.

: Breaks down the market by Technology, Deployment, and Industry Verticals for focused strategy development. Regional Insights : Comprehensive coverage of North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and more

: Comprehensive coverage of North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and more Competitive Landscape : Profiles key players, their strategic initiatives, and innovation-driven growth approaches.

: Profiles key players, their strategic initiatives, and innovation-driven growth approaches. Growth Drivers & Challenges : Analyzes the forces accelerating growth and the restraints hindering large-scale adoption.

: Analyzes the forces accelerating growth and the restraints hindering large-scale adoption. Challenges and Risk Assessment: Evaluates ethical debates, off-target effects, and regulatory complexities.
[Source link]: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/12/17/3207139/0/en/Low-Power-Wide-Area-Network-Market-is-expected-to-generate-a-revenue-of-USD-119-17-Billion-by-2032-Globally-at-56-20-CAGR-Verified-Market-Research.html


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: globenewswire
name: globenewswire
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: myanmar
name: myanmar
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

[TITLE]Enugu’s BRT Blitz: Modern Roads, Shattered Lives:
[TEXT]
Enugu’s push to become a globally competitive city by stopping the operation of Keke and yellow buses is vexingly ambitious. According to the Commissioner for Transport, Obi Ozor, the affected (roads) corridors include Okpara Avenue, Abakaliki Road, New Haven Junction, Naira Triangle, Emene Airport, Ogui Road, Chime Avenue, Bisala Road, Rangers Avenue, WAEC, Nkpokiti, Zik’s Avenue, Presidential Road, and the entire Agbani Road stretch.

These five major highways, now designated as Bus Rapid Transit routes under Governor Peter Mbah’s vision of a modern, multimodal city, are also the busiest for Keke riders and yellow buses, carrying the highest number of passengers.

The commissioner might be right that tricycles were never designed for high-speed highways, but are yellow buses not meant for them, too? Cleaner roads and organised traffic are welcome, yet these corridors are vital for daily commuters and livelihoods. Why can’t both the buses and BRT operate, allowing competition to reduce costs, especially if BRT fares rise beyond ordinary people’s reach?

Beyond efficiency, the plan raises deeper questions. What standards of modernity is the government following? The United Nations frames it around human rights, welfare, dignity, and development, which reduces poverty and inequality. If that is the benchmark, do Enugu’s reforms align with it? Will rural communities benefit, and will those dependent on small-scale transport feel secure and supported?

One must also ask whether the government is prioritising public service or its own transport company. As the commissioner said, “BRT buses operate on the primary roads, yellow buses serve the secondary routes, and tricycles provide last-mile connectivity. Everyone has a place in the value chain.”

In a manner of speaking, this amounts to imitating global standards while citizens lack basic needs. Isn’t it alarming that while Nigerian states, including Enugu, claim to pursue international standards, they often ignore the processes that ensure inclusive development? Can a state be considered developed when rural communities remain cut off by crumbling roads, lack potable water, and face dysfunctional healthcare?

The Sustainable Development Goals provide a human-centred framework for measuring genuine development, highlighting goals such as clean water and sanitation, good health and well-being, decent work and economic growth, and sustainable cities and communities. True modernity requires basic services and opportunities for all, not just urban infrastructure.

Yet in Enugu, some rural roads remain impassable. Residents of Ogwu Obollo Afor–Umuitodo–Ibenda–Obollo Eke in Udenu LGA endure a 19.8km corridor cut off in the rainy season, while Agu Umabor in Nsukka faces eroding, nearly unusable access. Parts of Udi North and the road to the Federal College of Education, Eha Amufu, also remain in deplorable condition.

Water access is equally dire.
[Source link]: https://punchng.com/enugus-brt-blitz-modern-roads-shattered-lives/


[TITLE]How to Keep Gaza’s Recovery From Becoming an 80-Year Project:
[TEXT]
A precarious cease-fire and the 20-point peace framework have stirred hope, but this is also a moment for sober realism. The destruction in Gaza is staggering: Approximately 70 percent of all buildings are damaged or destroyed, 90 percent of residents have been displaced, and essential infrastructure is devastated. With entire neighborhoods flattened, hospitals and schools unusable, and utilities barely functioning, Gaza will need to be rebuilt almost from its foundations at an estimated cost of more than $70 billion .

When wars end, attention must turn to what comes next: the daunting work of rebuilding. In Gaza, that effort will be at the scale of European cities ruined during World War II or Iraqi and Syrian cities laid waste in the war against the Islamic State.

When wars end, attention must turn to what comes next: the daunting work of rebuilding. In Gaza, that effort will be at the scale of European cities ruined during World War II or Iraqi and Syrian cities laid waste in the war against the Islamic State.

A precarious cease-fire and the 20-point peace framework have stirred hope, but this is also a moment for sober realism. The destruction in Gaza is staggering: Approximately 70 percent of all buildings are damaged or destroyed, 90 percent of residents have been displaced, and essential infrastructure is devastated. With entire neighborhoods flattened, hospitals and schools unusable, and utilities barely functioning, Gaza will need to be rebuilt almost from its foundations at an estimated cost of more than $70 billion.

Reconstruction, of course, cannot begin until political and security obstacles are addressed. Neither Israel nor Hamas have shown a genuine commitment to rebuilding Gaza or enabling the governance arrangements that such an effort would require. Yet even as these issues remain unresolved, it is time to think through the measures needed for recovery itself.

If the international community and regional actors approach Gaza’s recovery without a common vision, realistic timelines, and insufficient planning, it will fail. But if planners, financiers, and governments can coordinate from the outset, then the physical reconstruction of Gaza will be a vital piece in creating the conditions for enduring stability. The way Gaza rebuilds in the next several years will determine whether this moment can break the region’s long cycle of violence or become yet another false dawn.

The war in Gaza has devastated Palestinian heritage—the physical landscape is so damaged that many Palestinians may no longer recognize their homeland. And while it is important to recognize what is lost and acknowledge that it cannot be fully recovered, moving forward may require seeing this moment as an opportunity to start anew and reimagine the territory’s infrastructure altogether.

RAND, where I work, has developed a spatial vision for Gaza and the West Bank in collaboration with Israeli, Palestinian, and U.S. planners that considers infrastructure and institutional needs across six sectors: transportation, energy, water, urban design, governance, and the environment. Our work shows that Gaza can be reconstructed not merely to restore what was lost, but to become a modern, sustainable region serving its residents, contributing to the regional economy, and perhaps even attracting future tourism. Gaza’s cities could join other great economic powerhouse cities of the Middle East, such as Amman, Dubai, Muscat, and Tel Aviv. Such a vision could turn Gaza from a symbol of ruin into a model for regional renewal.

Yet even with a clear vision, reconstruction efforts—from post-Islamic State Iraq to the United States after Hurricane Katrina—take much longer than many leaders and donors expect. Plans that imagine Gaza fully restored in five years do not take this into account, although a short-term reconstruction sprint is important. Even prosperous, peaceful nations have found that recovery from major disasters often takes a decade or more. In unstable, conflict-prone contexts, it can stretch into generations. Germany after World War II is a case in point: Even 10 years later, West Germany was hailed as an economic miracle, while East Germany’s reconstruction lingered unfinished. Without a careful approach, the timeline for Gaza’s reconstruction could easily become measured in decades.

That should not be cause for despair, but for preparation. A pragmatic reconstruction plan addresses the unavoidable challenges before embarking: unclear property rights, rubble, immediate housing, restrictions on materials, management, and workforce shortages. Each of these has the potential to stop Gaza’s recovery before it starts. But each can be mitigated with vision and planning.

A foundational issue in Gaza’s reconstruction is property ownership. Every plot of land belongs to someone, yet ownership is often unclear. Even before the Israel-Hamas war, the property system was a patchwork of local, Israeli, Ottoman, British, and Egyptian laws mixed with informal claims and missing records, fueling persistent disputes. Creating a framework for ownership, compensation, and dispute resolution is essential before new communities can rise and existing communities can be restored.

Addressing rubble is the next challenge. Gaza faces an estimated 68 million tons of debris, far more than cities such as Mosul—with 7 to 8 million metric tons—after the war with the Islamic State. Buried within are human remains and an estimated 7,500 metric tons of unexploded Israeli munitions. The United Nations has estimated that clearing rubble alone could take 20 years. In Mosul, with 15 percent of the debris, cleanup remains incomplete after eight years.

It will be essential to prioritize which areas can be cleared and rebuilt first, cordon off dangerous areas, procure sufficient equipment, clear unexploded ordnance, secure staging sites where removed rubble can be processed, and carefully treat human remains. Efficiently clearing rubble will require international cooperation—and perhaps new technology, such as artificial intelligence-based hazard mapping—to accelerate progress. At the same time, Gaza’s rubble could become an asset, if it is recycled into roads, ports, or even offshore islands as part of creative reconstruction projects. The sheer amount of material could help build the Gaza of tomorrow.

Another test will be housing all the displaced Palestinians while reconstruction is underway. With most housing damaged or destroyed, Gaza’s residents are currently crowded in makeshift shelters on the beach, repurposed schools, and the ruins of their homes. As many as 1.5 million Palestinians may need interim shelter—with safe weatherproof structures, water, and electricity access—while permanent homes are rebuilt. The default in post-conflict zones is often to construct tent camps that are meant to last months but, in practice, become permanent cities. One-third of registered Palestinian refugees still lived in camps in the Middle East that were established after 1948 and 1967 when war broke out in October 2023.

A better approach would be to develop interim housing that is set up to avoid long-term encampment. Given the number of people involved, camps are inevitable, so our RAND report proposes creating purpose-built, “future-oriented” camps that can evolve into neighborhoods. These would have tent and caravan housing laid out on residential blocks, where permanent homes can be built later, with transportation and utility links to nearby cities. It also entails rehabbing partially habitable neighborhoods so families can live in place while reconstruction unfolds around them, incrementally. In other areas, destruction is total, and everything must be razed and rebuilt entirely, often through contracts with large international construction firms.

Materials themselves are another conundrum. For years, Gaza’s economy was choked by tight dual-use restrictions limiting access to items that Israel deemed potentially usable for military purposes, including concrete, timber, and water filtration systems. The postwar reconstruction phase must include a serious rethinking of this policy, which devastated Gaza’s construction industry but did not prevent Hamas from building its tunnel network. Refusing to allow basic building materials will only ensure Gaza’s destitution—and with that, another round of violence in the future. Israel’s legitimate security concerns can be met through monitored mechanisms and transparent supply chains. And taking some calculated risks on the materials needed to promote recovery may actually be the safest path forward.

Equally critical will be how reconstruction is financed and managed. Billions of dollars in donor funds and private investment may soon flow into Gaza. But money alone does not guarantee success, and Gaza cannot afford funding that arrives faster than management mechanisms can absorb it. Too often in the past, insufficient management has thwarted post-conflict recovery; a recent military review pointed to many factors in the failure of the $145 billion U.S. investment in Afghanistan, including oversight structures that did not prevent rampant corruption. What ultimately matters is governance—essentially, management structures capable of prioritizing projects, blending local decision-making with international expertise, overseeing large capital projects, coordinating donors, and ensuring transparency of money flows. Gaza will need technical systems proven to work, including unified donor coordination platforms like the one the European Union developed for Ukraine.

Finally, Gaza’s reconstruction will require a large skilled workforce, including engineers, construction workers, accountants, and planners. Gaza’s labor capacity has been depleted by war; thousands of working-age men have been killed or disabled, and women’s participation in the labor force remains low. Other recoveries show how dangerous it is to underestimate this problem. The U.S. Virgin Islands’ reconstruction after hurricanes has been slowed for years by a shortage of skilled workers and lack of housing for those who could relocate to help. To prevent similar paralysis, Gaza will need vocational programs to train Palestinians for rebuilding work. It will also need international labor imports, managed through large-scale contracts, with accommodations for foreign workers nearby, such as across the border in Egypt.

Physical rebuilding is only one part of recovery; it must be accompanied by social and institutional rehabilitation. Reconstruction won’t progress without sustained security and political stability. Cease-fires can collapse; donor appetite can wane; regional tensions can flare. Nor should planners underestimate the human dimension: Widespread psychological trauma, physical disabilities from injuries, loss of social cohesion, and distrust among Palestinians after years of war are all serious barriers to recovery. Still, history shows that countries and cities ravaged by war, from Berlin to Ho Chi Minh City to Beirut, can rebuild—and even thrive—given time and the right approach.

The coming year will determine whether Gaza’s recovery begins on realistic footing or remains in a quagmire. The difference will lie in the details, from workforce plans to institutional coordination. These may sound technical, but they are the foundations of peace and prosperity. Neglecting them will doom even the most generous international efforts. In contrast, getting them right could give Palestinians what they have lacked for decades: not just temporary relief, but a genuine chance to rebuild and remain in their homeland.
[Source link]: http://foreignpolicy.com/2025/12/17/war-gaza-rebuilding-palestinian-reconstruction-plan/


[TITLE]Dry Construction Market Valuation is Set to Reach US$ 154.6 Billion By 2035 | Astute Analytica:
[TEXT]
Chicago, Dec. 17, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The global dry construction
[Source link]: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/12/17/3207287/0/en/Dry-Construction-Market-Valuation-is-Set-to-Reach-US-154-6-Billion-By-2035-Astute-Analytica.html


[Failed to load article at https://www.rand.org/pubs/commentary/2025/12/turning-policy-into-habit-where-the-uks-vision-of-a.html]


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: american airlines
symbol: AAL
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1766106875
name: american airlines
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: nmg
symbol: NMG
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1766106877
name: nmg
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: oaktree capital management
name: oaktree capital management
symbol: None
error: 422 Client Error: Unprocessable Entity for url: https://finnhub.io/api/v1/search?q=oaktree+capital+management&token=d36pnjpr01qtvbtinv3gd36pnjpr01qtvbtinv40
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: redbird
name: redbird
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

[TITLE]Nukkleus Inc. Receives Shareholder Approval to Acquire Star 26 Capital Inc.:
[TEXT]
NEW YORK and TEL AVIV, Israel, Dec. 17, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Nukkleus Inc. (NASDAQ: NUKK) (“Nukkleus” or the “Company”), a strategic acquirer and developer of high-potential businesses in the aerospace and defense (A&D) industry, today announced that its stockholders have approved the acquisition of Star 26 Capital Inc., a defense-focused acquisition company. The transaction is expected to close before December 31, 2025.

Pursuant to the approved transaction, Nukkleus is expected to acquire 100% of Star 26 in consideration of a mixed package of cash, equity, and promissory notes, subject to customary adjustments, as well as shares of Nukkleus common stock and associated warrants issued to Star 26 shareholders. Additional details regarding the transaction are available in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The transaction, which was first announced on December 15, 2024, was approved by Nukkleus stockholders at the Special Meeting of Stockholders held on December 16, 2025, is intended to provide Nukkleus with 100% ownership of Star 26 and its portfolio of defense-related assets. The period between signing and closing enabled Star 26 to expand and strengthen its holdings, increasing the strategic value of the transaction for Nukkleus and its shareholders and further accelerating the firm’s evolution into a unified, multi-domain defense technology company.

Upon closing, the acquisition is expected to significantly enhance Nukkleus’s position across the military UAV and UAS value chain, which is expected to reach approximately $23 billion by 2030. It will enable deeper integration between unmanned platforms, artificial intelligence (“AI”), motion control, power systems, and command-and-control infrastructure. Upon closing, Nukkleus’s existing subsidiaries in AI, UAV systems, and GNSS-related technologies will now operate alongside Star 26’s companies, supporting the development of end-to-end unmanned and autonomous defense solutions spanning airborne platforms, payloads, ground control, and real-time decision-support systems.

Star 26 brings to Nukkleus a portfolio of defense and technology companies that are complementary to unmanned and autonomous systems, including B. Rimon Agencies Ltd., a leading Israeli supplier of critical components for advanced missile-defense such as the Iron Dome, with exclusive distribution relationships with major defense contractors including Rafael Advanced Defense Systems and Elbit Systems. Star 26 also holds a majority interest in Water.io (TASE: WATR), which recently completed its acquisition of Zorronet, a developer of AI-powered unmanned command centers and integrated physical-security platforms, as well as a convertible loan position in ITS/Positech, a specialist in advanced motion-control, stabilization, and targeting technologies.

These companies are expected to collaborate with Nukkleus’s existing portfolio across AI, UAVs, aerospace systems, command and control, and defense infrastructure, supporting integrated solutions that combine autonomous platforms with motion, sensing, and centralized control. Following the closing, the acquisition is expected to provide operational efficiencies through shared resources, streamlined supply chains, expanded distribution, and cross-platform integration, while each subsidiary continues to operate independently within its core domain. This approach supports Nukkleus’s ability to address evolving requirements in UAV, UAS, and related defense systems.

“We are very pleased to have received stockholder approval for this acquisition,” said Menny Shalom, CEO of Nukkleus Inc. “This transaction is the next logical step for Nukkleus, as unmanned and autonomous systems become an integral part of modern defense, performance increasingly depends on how well hardware, control systems, and software work together. Bringing Star 26 and its portfolio under the Nukkleus umbrella enables closer collaboration across AI, UAVs, aerospace systems, and command and control, supporting integrated solutions that combine autonomy with motion and sensing. For shareholders, this structure is expected to improve operational efficiency through shared resources and coordinated supply chains, while positioning Nukkleus to address evolving requirements in UAS and related defense programs in a disciplined way.”

At the special meeting, stockholders of the Company’s Common Stock also approved the issuance of shares upon conversion of the Company’s outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and associated warrants previously issued to investors, as well as the issuance of shares in connection with the Company’s $250 million equity line.
[Source link]: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/12/17/3207372/0/en/Nukkleus-Inc-Receives-Shareholder-Approval-to-Acquire-Star-26-Capital-Inc.html


[Failed to load article at https://financialpost.com/pmn/business-wire-news-releases-pmn/starfighters-space-announces-closing-of-its-reg-a-initial-public-offering]


[Failed to load article at https://financialpost.com/pmn/business-pmn/uk-boeing-supplier-doncasters-said-to-pick-banks-for-us-listing]


[TITLE]Defense stocks rally as Germany set to approve $60 billion defense splurge:
[TEXT]
Boris Pistorius, Germany's defense minister, rides in a Leopard 2 A6 battle tank during a presentation by the German Army Panzer Battalion 203 in Augustdorf, Germany, on Feb. 1, 2023.

German lawmakers are widely expected to approve a defense spending package worth more than 50 billion euros ($58.6 billion) on Wednesday, as the country moves to bolster its national security capabilities in the wake of the Ukraine war.

Meeting agenda documents for the Bundestag's Budget Committee show politicians are set to discuss the defense procurement proposals on Wednesday. The committee can both approve and block major purchases.

According to German media, the proposed expenditure — which is expected to be passed — includes 22 billion euros for personal protective equipment and clothing for military personnel, and around 10 billion euros for upgrades to infantry fighter vehicles, air defense, and missile systems.

European defense stocks rallied on Wednesday morning as investors awaited the outcome of the meeting, which is widely expected to result in approval of the new military budget.

By 11:12 a.m. in London (6:12 a.m. ET), the Stoxx Europe Aerospace and Defense index was 1.2% higher, led by German defense giants Renk, up 2.8%, Hensoldt, up 2.4%, and Rheinmetall, which gained 1.8%.

Shares in the sector sold off on Tuesday, with the broader index shedding 1.8% in the session amid rising hopes of a peace deal to end the war in Ukraine.

Since the start of the year, the Stoxx Europe Aerospace and Defense index has surged more than 50%, with some regional defense players more than doubling in value amid commitments from regional governrements and the NATO military alliance to ramp up defense spending.

The pledges are widely expected to boost European firms' bottom lines, with regionally headquartered companies already reporting record order backlogs and huge upswings in income.

German companies in particular have been beneficiaries of the regional defense boom, after the country's government reformed historic legislation to pave the way for increased security spending. Arms manufacturer Rheinmetall , for instance, has seen its stock surge 150% this year.
[Source link]: https://www.cnbc.com/2025/12/17/defense-stocks-rally-as-germany-set-to-pass-60-billion-package.html


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: boeing
symbol: BA
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1766106882
name: boeing
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: doncasters
name: doncasters
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: nukkleus
symbol: NUKK
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1766106884
name: nukkleus
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: starfighters space
name: starfighters space
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

