[TITLE]Amazon Buys Flex Property in SoCal for $79M:
[TEXT]
The world’s e-commerce king has acquired a flex industrial property in Southern California that could soon be pulled into the gravitational orbit of data center and digital infrastructure demand.

Amazon put down almost $78.8 million, or $469 per square foot, for a 168,000-square-foot property at 2964 Bradley Street in Pasadena. The deal is a 139 percent jump since the sellers, Alvarez & Marsal Capital Real Estate, acquired the property for $33 million
[Source link]: http://commercialobserver.com/2025/12/amazon-pasadena-california-tech-industrial-data/


[TITLE]Hooker Furnishings Announces Sale of Two Brands within Home Meridian Segment:
[TEXT]
MARTINSVILLE, Va., Dec. 01, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Hooker Furnishings Corporation (NASDAQ-GS: HOFT) (“Hooker” or the “Company”), a global leader in home furnishings, today announced it has entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Pulaski Furniture and Samuel Lawrence Furniture casegoods brands to Magnussen Home Furnishings, Inc. (“Magnussen”). Pursuant to the terms of the asset purchase agreement, an estimated purchase price will be determined and paid at closing based upon the net book value of the assets being sold in the transaction. As of November 2, 2025, the Company’s fiscal third quarter-end, the currently estimated purchase price is approximately $4.8 million subject to final adjustment to closing values, pursuant to the terms of the asset purchase agreement. The Company will also shed approximately $4.8 million in Home Meridian (“HMI”) showroom lease liabilities and related expenses, as Magnussen will assume the lease of HMI’s High Point showroom.

“Today’s announcement is a major step in our multi-year effort to streamline our portfolio and strengthen profitability by sharpening our focus on brands that generate consistent earnings,” said Jeremy Hoff, CEO of Hooker Furnishings. “We are excited to move forward as a nimbler business with an efficient cost structure and clear growth priorities. We have promising growth opportunities on the horizon following the launch last month of our Margaritaville licensed collection. Together with our remaining portfolio and ongoing cost reductions of over $25 million, we are more confident than ever that we are well-positioned to enhance shareholder value.”

The Company will retain the Samuel Lawrence Hospitality brand, which is expected to become part of its “All other” segment. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including third party consents, and is currently expected to close by mid-December 2025. Ten percent of the purchase price paid at closing will be subject to a holdback for 210 days for customary indemnification and final purchase price adjustments.

In connection with the transaction, the Company expects to record $5 to $6 million in non-cash impairment charges, net of expected lease gains upon termination. These impairment charges are primarily related to the write down of HMI intangibles and fixed assets.

Stump & Company served as financial advisor to the Company and McGuireWoods LLP served as legal advisor to the Company in connection with the sale transaction.

Third Quarter Earnings Results and Conference Call

Hooker will provide a further update on its business, including the sale of these two brands within HMI, during its fiscal 2026 third quarter earnings call on Thursday morning, December 11, 2025 at 9:00 AM Eastern Time.

A live webcast of the call will be available on the Investor Relations page of the Company’s website at https://investors.hookerfurnishings.com/events and archived for replay. To access the call by phone, participants should go to this link (REGISTRATION LINK) and you will be provided with dial-in details. To avoid delays, participants are encouraged to dial into the conference call fifteen minutes ahead of the scheduled start time.

Hooker's 2026 fiscal year third quarter began on August 4, 2025 and ended on November 2, 2025.
[Source link]: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/12/01/3197514/8255/en/Hooker-Furnishings-Announces-Sale-of-Two-Brands-within-Home-Meridian-Segment.html


[TITLE]Puma Acquisition Speculation Heats Up Again: All the Potential Suitors So Far:
[TEXT]
There’s no shortage of possible bidders for Puma, but a sale — if there is to be one — might not come until further down the road.

That’s because the focus for the Puma brand might be centered more on its turnaround strategy, at least for now. First and foremost, the brand needs to focus on righting the ship first. Moreover, a successful turnaround would also garner a higher valuation — which would correlate to higher offers — if a sale were to occur.

Shares of Puma SE ticked up in September over speculation that its rival Adidas might be interested in acquiring the brand. Two days later, shares of Puma rose again over speculation that brand management firm Authentic Brands Group and private equity firm CVC would be throwing their hats into the ring.

Authentic Brands is one of those firms that becomes top of mind whenever a brand comes up for sale, mostly because the brand management firm gets all pitches from investment bankers in hopes that they could be drawn into a bidding process. In this case, Authentic Brands seems a natural fit because it has a footwear vertical that includes the Swedish footwear brand Tretorn that it acquired from Puma for an undisclosed sum in 2015. Authentic Brands also acquired Reebok from Adidas in 2022 for up to $2.5 billion. The footwear vertical also includes Airwalk, Tretorn, Frye, Sperry, Hunter, Rockport and Bandolino.

You May Also Like

Last week, Puma shares popped up again, this time on rumblings that China’s sportswear firm Anta Sports could be eyeing the German athletic brand. In addition to media outlets citing Anta, Li Ning and Asics were also mentioned as possible bidders. Both Li Ning and Asics reportedly denied that any talks or even evaluations of potential interest were taking place, while Anta and Puma didn’t respond to requests for comment.

The fact that the German brand is struggling makes it a ripe candidate for takeover speculation. And investment bankers sometimes will float out an idea to see if there’s any interest as they hunt for potential deals they can get done.

In August, Bloomberg said in a story that Puma’s 29 percent majority stake owner Artemis — the parent firm that controls Gucci-owner Kering — was entertaining the possibility of a sale of its stake in Puma. A few weeks later, Reuters reported that Artemis would not sell at current valuations. Artemis chairman is François-Henri Pinault, who is also chairman of French luxury firm Kering.

Artemis on Monday declined comment, while Puma did not respond to a request for comment.

Asked whether Artémis, the Pinault family’s holding company, would consider selling its stake in the German sporting goods brand to reduce its debt load, Pinault noted in September that it is “not a strategic asset” and Artémis was “keeping all its options open.”

Keeping options open makes the most sense once Adidas veteran Arthur Hoeld took over the reigns as Puma chairman and CEO on July 1.

“I think the Puma turnaround is in the early stages, but they seem focused on doing the right things,” said Matt Powell, an advisor at Spurwink River. “Turnarounds are always expensive and take a lot of time.”

Powell observed that one of Puma’s weaknesses is that it does not have a “clear brand identity” in the U.S.

When the company reported third quarter results on Oct. 30, Hoeld said during a conference call that the company recognizes its “shortcomings and the issues that Puma is having right now, and what is holding Puma back to succeed.”

“We’re overexposed,” Hoeld told investors. He ticked off a list of all the things Puma needs to correct, indicating that the brand has a lot of work to do.

One big problem he noted was the lack of brand heat as the label lags behind competitors and therefore not commanding the same attention of brand love that is required to succeed in the market.

A second problem Hoeld cited was the channel mix between direct-to-consumer (DTC) and wholesale is “not on par with competition.” Most competitors are 60 percent wholesale with customers and 40 percent DTC, whereas Puma’s share is only 30 percent in DTC. That limits the brand’s “opportunity to showcase our product, to excite consumers directly with our storytelling, and also determine how we’re going to show up in the marketplace,” he said. In addition, out of Puma’s top 10 global customers, three are in the mass merchant category, which Hoeld said are “usually where off-price business, or off-season business, is sold in a very wide distribution and in a not very brand-enhancing manner.”

Puma also has a problem with too much inventory. “We have way too many products and we’re supplying way too many articles each and every season into the trade,” he said, adding that the brand’s key iconic products aren’t standing out. Once that’s fixed where key products tells consumers what Puma stands for could represent a “huge opportunity for us,” he told investors.

He also identified another huge problem, and that is that storytelling isn’t as integrated as it should be because the firm is organized in silos, resulting in fragmentation between the product, marketing and sales teams. “As a result of that, we do have to realize and to recognize that Puma as a brand has become too commercial over the years, too commercial from a distribution perspective, too commercial from a pricing and also from a promotion perspective,” Hoeld said.

Among the initial moves was to clean up its wholesale business and its overstock. “That is something which we’ll continue to do in the next couple of quarters,” he said, adding that the brand has also “reduced discounts in our very own channels. So, whether it’s e-commerce or retail, we have started to show up as a more healthy brand again that commands price points, which consumers are absolutely willing to pay for our products.”

Acknowledging that Puma’s brand position is no longer in the top three, given its softening sales and increased competition, Hoeld said the goal is to become a top three sports brand again by returning to above industry growth by Fiscal Year 2027, with 2026 a transition year for the brand.

In addition to reducing its product range, the company also said it was reducing its workforce by 1,400 positions starting this year and through 2026. The brand also made some leadership changes, naming Andreas Hubert as its chief operating officer, and expanding chief product officer Maria Valdes’ role to include brand and marketing and go-to market as she takes on the role of chief brand officer.

Forging ahead, Puma on Monday opened its largest-ever European flagship store on Oxford Street in London. The High Street is one of Europe’s busiest shopping destinations. The location, located seconds from Selfridges and Bond Street Tube Station, spans 24,000 square-feet. The store features Puma’s industry-leading innovations that include running technology Nitro and football boots Future, Ultra and King, as well as the brand’s current range of lifestyle products.

Hoeld said that store is Puma’s first flagship door in Europe, “which gives us the chance to connect with more people than ever before.”

The store features multiple customization areas for consumers to create unique products and immerse themselves in a digital running video-wall that reacts to every touch. Marking the opening, Puma is offering a special London exclusive collection that reimagines British icons such as the Union Flag and Harris Tweed.

The brand in October also opened a new Los Angeles office that serves as its new creative and innovation hub to complement the brand’s existing global and regional product teams located in Somerville, Mass.

Can a turnaround be achieved?

TD Cowen analyst John Kernan has a “Hold” rating on shares of Puma. With a focus on distribution and stock-keeping unit cleanup, performance led product categories and organizational streamlining, Kernan said global peers Adidas and Nike are working on similar playbooks with Puma in catch-up mode. He is cautious on turnarounds, including that of Under Armour given the increased competition in the sector. And he said the Puma cash burn and operating losses potentially could require a capital raise — the analyst estimated 500 million euros in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2026 — as well as a significant reduction in working capital due to lower inventory and higher payables.

Kernan didn’t rule out a turnaround, but said while Hoeld spoke about “all the sensible qualitative touchpoints,” his discussion was “short (for now) on providing any firm targets other than aiming for a return to growth beginning in Fiscal Year 2027.”

With contributions from Joelle Diderich
[Source link]: http://wwd.com/footwear-news/shoe-industry-news/puma-suitors-challenge-turnaround-inititiatives-artemis-1238365540/


[TITLE]Goldman Sachs boosts ETF line-up with acquisition of Innovator Capital:
[TEXT]

[Source link]: https://biztoc.com/x/f8210d93b8ae48db


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: amazon
symbol: AMZN
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1764723809
name: amazon
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: goldman sachs
symbol: GS
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1764723810
name: goldman sachs
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: hooker furnishings
symbol: HOFT
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1764723811
name: hooker furnishings
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: puma
symbol: PUM.DE
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1764723813
name: puma
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

[TITLE]GST 2.0 Reforms Trigger Strong Consumption Surge, Taxable Value Up 15% In Sept–Oct: Govt Official:
[TEXT]
GST 2.0 rate rationalisation is beginning to show visible impact, with November emerging as the first complete month of collections after the reform rollout, a government official said. According to the official, monthly numbers indicate that the reform trajectory is moving firmly in the right direction, even though the full effects of the rate cuts will unfold over the coming quarters.

Citing preliminary filings, the official suggested that taxable supplies grew 15% in September–October 2025, compared with 8.6% in the same period in 2024 — an almost double increase in growth momentum.

“We are beginning to see the impact of strong underlying demand, even as rates have been reduced under the rationalisation exercise,” the official said. “Supply growth has remained robust despite lower rates, which reflects confidence in economic activity and improved compliance.”

Notably, gross GST collections for November rose 0.7% year-on-year to Rs 1.7 lakh crore, while net collections climbed 1.3%, excluding the compensation cess, as per the data released on Monday.

The official added that the complete benefits of GST 2.0 will take time to materialise as businesses stabilise under the new rate structure. “The early trends give us confidence that consumption will strengthen as the transition settles,” the official noted.

A closer look at sectoral trends for September–October 2025 underscores the breadth of the consumption uplift. Ready-made food recorded growth of 17% compared to 11% in the same period last year, while passenger cars and buses expanded by 20% compared to 12% a year earlier. Medical devices grew 19%, up from 16% last year. Construction activity surged dramatically, rising 19% versus just 2% in the comparable period of 2024. Pharmaceutical products saw growth of 13% compared to 5% last year.

Goods carriers and other commercial vehicles grew 12% versus 2% in the previous year, and tractor sales rose 17% compared to 11%. Leather products showed robust momentum, expanding 18% against 9% last year.

Textiles, however, grew at a slower pace of 8% compared to 12% in 2024, with the sector affected by external headwinds. Two-wheelers and bicycles grew 18% versus 23% last year, a moderation driven by a high base and a consumer shift toward four-wheelers.

All other remaining categories together grew by 28% compared with 12% in the same period last year, pointing to broad-based expansion across the economy.

Officials say the data indicates that rate cuts have not undermined revenue stability. Instead, improved compliance, strong supply growth, and rising taxable value suggest that the GST 2.0 framework is beginning to support more sustainable and consumption-driven economic momentum.
[Source link]: https://www.ndtvprofit.com/economy-finance/gst-20-reforms-trigger-strong-consumption-surge-taxable-value-up-15-in-septoct-govt-official


[TITLE]Meesho IPO: How the women-powered platform left Amazon and Flipkart chasing discounts:
[TEXT]
Live Events

as a Reliable and Trusted News Source Addas a Reliable and Trusted News Source Add Now!

(You can now subscribe to our

(You can now subscribe to our ETMarkets WhatsApp channel

Meesho's rise to the top of India's e-commerce market has rewritten the rules of online retail. What began as a platform selling inexpensive fashion has turned into the largest e-commerce marketplace in the country by building an audience far away from India's metros. At a time when Amazon and Flipkart dominate urban shopping and premium categories, Meesho's success has come from understanding how small-town Indians shop, what they are willing to pay and how they prefer to discover products.Its latest filings and industry data show a company built not on big-ticket spending but on millions of low-value orders that now shape India’s online commerce story. In FY25, the company reported that 198.77 million annual transacting users shopped on the platform, and 174.43 million of them were from outside India’s top eight cities.In the following twelve-month period ending September 2025, the share grew even further, with 234.20 million users in total, of which 205.80 million were from non-metro India. This means the overwhelming majority of Meesho's shoppers now come from Tier-2, Tier-3 and smaller towns.The strength of this customer base also shows in the company's order volumes. Meesho had 213 million Annual Transacting Users as of June, who placed 561.9 million orders serviced by more than 575,000 sellers. Its filings show that placed orders have surged from 1,024.34 million in FY23 to 1,341.94 million in FY24 and further to 1,834.40 million in FY25.These are not metro-led figures. Meesho says nearly 90% of its orders come from smaller Indian towns, making it one of the widest rural and semi-urban e-commerce footprints in the country.What makes this growth even sharper is Meesho’s falling average order value (AOV). In FY23, the AOV was Rs 336.71. It dropped to Rs 298 in FY24 and to Rs 274.27 in FY25. In the six-month period ending September 2025, the AOV fell further to Rs 265.50.These numbers show that Meesho's core buyers are not purchasing high-value electronics, premium clothing or branded goods in large quantities. They are buying small, frequent, affordable items that fit tight budgets. This is the behaviour of India’s value-conscious consumers, and Meesho has built its business around serving exactly that segment.In an interview with Bloomberg News, Chief Financial Officer Dhiresh Bansal said the company has been "very, very focused on affordability," and wants to offer the lowest possible prices in every category.Meesho's zero-commission model, where sellers are not charged platform fees, allows them to price aggressively. Many of these sellers are manufacturers, traders and wholesalers from Tier-2 and Tier-3 towns who produce unbranded or regional products.According to the Redseer Report, such regional and unbranded goods make up more than 75% of India’s overall retail market. Meesho’s marketplace structure helps bring these products online at scale.This focus on affordability and reach has made Meesho the fastest-growing major e-commerce player in the past two years. While India’s e-commerce shopper base grew 11–20% between FY23 and FY25, Meesho’s Annual Transacting Users grew about 46% in the same period.Its mix of low pricing, discovery-driven shopping, content-based recommendations and simple onboarding has appealed to millions of first-time internet buyers in the hinterland, many of them women. In FY25, women accounted for 54.22% of Meesho's customers. In the following twelve-month period, the figure remained above 53%.The company's seller ecosystem has scaled accordingly. Meesho had 449,966 annual transacting sellers in FY23. That number dipped slightly to 423,749 in FY 2024 but jumped to 513,757 in FY 2025. In the twelve months ending September 2025, it expanded further to 706,471 sellers.The average seller is also earning more: the NMV per annual transacting seller rose from Rs 427,429.78 in FY23 to Rs 548,463.42 in FY24 and to Rs 583,697.39 in FY25. Time to first order has dropped from 32 days in FY23 to 16 days in FY25, reflecting better product discovery and faster onboarding.Meesho's growth comes at a moment when India itself is experiencing a shift in consumption patterns. The country’s e-commerce market, currently valued at around Rs 6 lakh crore in gross merchandise value, is projected to grow to Rs 15–18 lakh crore by FY30.The majority of new shoppers will come from tier-2 and smaller cities, which could represent 51–52% of India’s entire e-commerce market by 2030, up from around 44% in FY25. Meesho is positioned at the centre of this structural change.The larger retail market, estimated at Rs 83 lakh crore in FY25, is expected to grow to as much as Rs 135 lakh crore by FY30. Meesho’s Serviceable Addressable Market within this, about Rs 33 trillion in FY25, is set to expand to Rs 51–56 lakh crore by 2030.These are categories that Indians outside metros buy every day: apparel, low-cost accessories, kitchenware, footwear, home goods and regional unbranded products. Apparel alone contributes 34% of Meesho's sales.Meesho will also rely on stronger infrastructure to sustain this scale. The company will use its IPO proceeds for acquisitions, boosting cloud infrastructure, building out artificial intelligence capabilities and spending on marketing.Despite rapid expansion, Meesho has kept expenses in check. Advertising and promotions have dropped from Rs 927.80 crore in FY23 to Rs 643.53 crore in FY25, shrinking from 12.26% of total expenses to 6.43%.The natural question is whether Amazon India and Flipkart have missed this hinterland wave. Public data suggests a more nuanced picture. Both platforms have said during major festival sales that a majority of their customers come from non-metro India.But outside such peak events, neither company regularly discloses a metro versus non-metro split of its overall orders or users. Analysts say their product mix, higher average order values and stronger dependence on branded goods naturally give them a more urban-heavy audience than Meesho.But they are chasing the same market, and Meesho acknowledges that Amazon and Flipkart are now targeting "some of their customers," even as value retailers like Vishal Mega Mart and Zudio add more competitive pressure.What sets Meesho apart is not that others ignored small-town India, but that Meesho built its entire business for that consumer from the start. Its low-cost model, inexpensive catalogue, discovery-led shopping and mass-market positioning have aligned perfectly with how small-town India shops online.: Recommendations, suggestions, views and opinions given by the experts are their own. These do not represent the views of Economic Times)
[Source link]: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/ipos/fpos/meesho-ipo-how-the-women-powered-platform-left-amazon-and-flipkart-chasing-discounts/articleshow/125686589.cms


[TITLE]Protein Ingredients Market Size to Exceed USD 91.78 Billion by 2034 | Towards FnB:
[TEXT]
Ottawa, Dec. 01, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The global protein ingredients market size stood at USD 52.72 billion in 2024 and is predicted to increase from USD 55.73 billion in 2025 to reach around USD 91.78 billion by 2034, according to a report published by Towards FnB, a sister firm of Precedence Research.

The market is observed to grow due to higher demand for protein-rich food options. Such options help enhance muscle recovery, aid weight loss, and support people working out in the gym.

Note: This report is readily available for immediate delivery. We can review it with you in a meeting to ensure data reliability and quality for decision-making.

Access the Full Study Instantly | Download Sample Pages of the Report Now@ https://www.towardsfnb.com/download-sample/5929

Key Highlights of the Protein Ingredients Market

By region, North America led the protein ingredients market with highest share of 38% in 2024, whereas the Asia Pacific is expected to grow in the forecast period.

By product, the animal/dairy protein ingredients segment led the protein ingredients market in 2024, whereas the insect protein segment is expected to grow in the foreseeable period.

By application, the food and beverage segment dominated the protein ingredients market in 2024, whereas the animal feed segment is projected to grow in the foreseeable period.

Higher Demand for Protein Variants Is Helpful for the Protein Ingredients Sector Growth

The protein ingredients market is expected to grow due to rising demand for both animal and plant-based protein products. Such food options offer multiple benefits, including being essential for gym rats and muscle recovery, as well as being helpful for consumers on a weight-loss spree. Higher demand for functional food, vegan and vegetarian options, and nutraceuticals is also a major driver of the growth of the protein ingredients industry.

The growing population of health-conscious consumers has recently led to higher demand for vegan and plant-based options, which is also helping propel market growth. Hence, such consumers highly demand plant-based food, beverages, and protein sources. They are low in fat and have lower cholesterol levels. Hence, they provide various benefits for bodily functions, further fueling the industry’s growth.

Technological Advancements Are Helpful for the Market’s Growth

Technological advancements that enhance the formula and benefits of the product are among the major factors driving the growth of the protein ingredients market. Technological advancements help improve fermentation precision, non-thermal processing, enzymatic modification, and advanced extraction methods. Such methods help to improve the functionality, purity, and sustainability of protein. Technological advancements, such as AI and ML, help identify consumer demands and make product modifications accordingly. Hence, such factors help to fuel the market’s growth in the foreseen period. Various other improved methods, such as microencapsulation and 3D printing, enhance protein stability, texture, and delivery, further fueling market growth. Such advancements enhance cost-effectiveness, which is helpful for mass production.

Recent Developments in the Protein Ingredients Market

In November 2025, Tetra Pak launched its sunflower protein, a plant-based protein to help the food and beverage industry expand its product category. The new protein consists of 50% protein along with fiber, vitamins, and antioxidants.

In August 2025, Burcon NutraScience announced the successful commercial production and launch of FavaPro, its 90%+ high-purity fava protein isolate.

Impact of AI in the Protein Ingredients Market

Artificial intelligence (AI) is reshaping the protein ingredients market by accelerating formulation development, improving production efficiency, and enhancing consumer alignment across both plant and animal-based protein categories. In research and formulation, AI-powered algorithms analyze large datasets on amino acid profiles, functional properties, and consumer dietary trends to identify optimal protein combinations for specific applications such as sports nutrition, bakery, dairy alternatives, and ready-to-drink beverages. Machine learning models simulate how different proteins, such as whey, casein, soy, pea, rice, and insect-based proteins, behave under various processing conditions, reducing trial-and-error and enabling manufacturers to achieve ideal solubility, texture, and flavor.

View Full Market Intelligence@ https://www.towardsfnb.com/insights/protein-ingredients-market

New Trends of Protein Ingredients Market

Higher demand for plant-based protein options by health-conscious consumers is one of the major factors for the growth of the market.

Higher consumer awareness of sustainability and eco-friendly protein sources is another major factor driving market growth.

Higher demand for a variety of protein sources in different forms, such as sports drinks and protein supplements, is another major factor for the market’s growth.

Product innovation helps manufacturers introduce protein in new ways and across different products, thereby driving market growth.

Improving technology is helpful to enhance the taste, texture, and nutritional quality of various protein sources, and also helps propel the growth of the market.

Product Survey of the Protein Ingredients Market

Product Category Description or Function Common Forms or Variants Key Applications or End Use Segments Representative Producers or Brands Whey Protein Ingredients Dairy-derived proteins with high biological value and strong solubility. Whey protein concentrate, whey protein isolate, hydrolyzed whey protein Sports nutrition, RTD shakes, bakery, infant formula Arla Foods Ingredients, Hilmar, Glanbia Nutritionals Casein and Caseinates Slow-digesting proteins are used for functional properties and nutritional value. Micellar casein, calcium caseinate, sodium caseinate Sports nutrition, cheese, bakery, and medical nutrition Fonterra, FrieslandCampina Ingredients Egg Protein Ingredients High-quality complete proteins derived from egg whites and whole eggs. Egg white powder, egg protein isolate Sports nutrition, bakery, confectionery Kewpie, Rose Acre Farms Soy Protein Ingredients Affordable plant proteins with strong functional capabilities. Soy protein isolate, soy protein concentrate, textured soy protein Meat alternatives, bakery, sports nutrition ADM, Cargill, DuPont Nutrition Pea Protein Ingredients Plant-based proteins with clean label appeal and good digestibility. Pea protein isolate, textured pea protein, pea flour Dairy alternatives, meat alternatives, nutrition products Roquette, Puris, Ingredion Rice Protein Ingredients Hypoallergenic plant proteins are used for blends and clean-label products. Rice protein concentrate, rice protein isolate Infant foods, vegan nutrition, smoothies Axiom Foods, RiceBran Technologies Wheat Protein Ingredients Functional proteins provide elasticity and structure. Vital wheat gluten, hydrolyzed wheat protein Bakery, plant-based meats, noodles Manildra Group, Roquette Collagen and Gelatin Proteins Animal-derived proteins are used for beauty, joint health, and functional gelling. Type I and II collagen, gelatin powder Beauty supplements, gummies, capsules Gelita, Nitta Gelatin Animal-Based Protein Powders Non-dairy animal proteins for high-protein products. Beef protein isolate, chicken protein powder Sports nutrition, specialty diets MuscleMeds, BHN, Essentia Protein Solutions Algae and Microbial Protein Ingredients Sustainable next-generation proteins produced through microalgae or fermentation. Spirulina protein, chlorella, fermentation-derived protein Functional foods, beverages, and alternative proteins Corbion, Triton Algae Innovations Hemp Protein Ingredients Plant proteins rich in fiber and omega fatty acids. Hemp protein powder, cold-pressed hemp protein Vegan nutrition, smoothies, snacks Manitoba Harvest, Nutiva Fava Bean and Lupin Protein Ingredients Emerging plant proteins with strong functional profiles. Fava protein concentrate, lupin protein isolate Dairy alternatives, bakery, meat alternatives Emsland Group, InnovoPro Insect Protein Ingredients Novel protein sources from crickets and mealworms. Cricket protein powder, insect flour Sports nutrition, snacks, pet food Aspire Food Group, Protix Milk Protein Concentrate and Isolate High-purity dairy proteins are used for fortification and functional foods. MPC, MPI Yogurt, cheese, sports nutrition, high-protein snacks Fonterra, Idaho Milk Products Hydrolyzed Plant Proteins Enzymatically treated proteins for higher solubility and improved absorption. Hydrolyzed pea protein, hydrolyzed soy protein Infant nutrition, medical foods, beverages Kerry, DSM Firmenich Blended Protein Systems Custom blends combining plant and animal proteins for improved amino acid balance. Plant blend proteins, dairy plant blends Sports nutrition, meal replacements Glanbia Nutritionals, private label

For Detailed Pricing and Tailored Market Report Options, Click Here: https://www.towardsfnb.com/checkout/5929

Protein Ingredients Market Dynamics

What Are the Growth Drivers of the Protein Ingredients Market?

Higher demand for functional, plant-based, and convenient protein sources is a major factor driving market growth. Higher consumer awareness regarding health and nutrition, and the importance of protein for the body, is another major factor for the market’s growth. The growing population of vegans, vegetarians, and flexitarians, who demand plant-based protein sources, also helps fuel market growth. The availability of protein-rich food and beverage options in convenient forms, such as protein snacks, bars, and drinks, also helps drive market growth. Such options can be easily adopted by consumers to avoid unhealthy and unnecessary snacking, which is further helpful for market growth.

Challenge

Price Volatility Affecting the Market’s Growth

The raw ingredients required for the manufacturing of plant-based protein, such as soy, pea, and whey, may fluctuate for various reasons. Bad weather, geopolitical issues, or supply chain issues may affect the entire manufacturing process, resulting in higher costs. Hence, it also affects the final product's cost, thereby hampering the growth of the protein ingredients market.

Opportunity

Higher Demand in the Cosmetic Industry Is Helpful for the Market’s Growth

Higher use of plant-based ingredients such as pea, soy, wheat, rice, and almond helps to improve the skin texture, quality, and barrier repair. Hence, it helps to fuel the growth of the protein ingredients market. Such ingredients help to give a plump texture, enhance quality, and maintain the skin’s elasticity and youthfulness. Therefore, they are widely used in the cosmetic manufacturing industry, further fueling market growth. Such ingredients also help retain the skin’s moisture, further helping attract consumers’ attention and drive market growth.

Protein Ingredients Market Regional Analysis

North America Dominated the Protein Ingredients Market in 2024

North America led the protein ingredients market in 2024, driven by changing consumer lifestyles, rapid urbanization, and higher demand for convenient protein sources in the form of bars, snacks, and beverages. Such options allow consumers to avoid unhealthy snacking with ease and are available across various platforms, further fueling market growth. The US and Canada play a major role in the growth of the regional market due to high demand for convenient protein sources and growing consumer awareness of health and nutrition. The growing fad of high-protein diets such as keto and paleo in the US is another major factor fueling the market’s growth.

Asia Pacific Is Expected to Grow in the Forecast Period

Asia Pacific is expected to grow over the forecast period due to rapid urbanization, changing consumer preferences, and growing consumer awareness of health and nutrition, which are major factors driving the growth of the protein ingredients market. The growing population of vegans and vegetarians demanding plant-based protein options made from soy, wheat, soya, and fava also helps fuel market growth. Higher demand for convenient, ready-to-eat, and ready-to-cook options also helps to fuel the market’s growth in the foreseen period. Countries such as India, China, Japan, and South Korea have made major contributions to the growth of the region's market due to changing lifestyles, higher demand for convenient options, and greater demand for products with longer shelf lives.

Europe Has Observed a Notable Growth in the Foreseeable Period

Europe is expected to see notable growth over the forecast period due to changing consumer lifestyles, rising demand for convenient protein sources, and demand for healthier alternatives. The growing population of vegans, vegetarians, and flexitarians in the region is another major factor for the market’s growth. Higher demand for vegetarian, clean-label, and functional protein ingredients also helps fuel the growth of the protein ingredients market. Countries such as the UK, Germany, and France help fuel market growth through the growing organic industry, which supports the manufacturing of clean-label and plant-based protein sources.

Protein Ingredients Market Report Scope

Report Attribute Key Statistics Base Year 2024 Forecast Period 2025 to 2034 Growth Rate from 2025 to 2034 CAGR of 5.7% Market Size in 2025 USD 55.73 Billion Market Size in 2026 USD 58.90 Billion Market Size by 2034 USD 91.78 Billion Dominated Region North America Fastest Growing Region Asia Pacific Regions Covered North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Middle East & Africa

Have Questions? Let’s Talk—Schedule a Meeting with Our Insights Team: https://www.towardsfnb.com/schedule-meeting

Trade Analysis of Protein Ingredient Market

Import & Export Statistics

Global Trade Scale and Recent Trend Signals

The global protein ingredients market covers animal proteins (whey, casein, collagen), plant proteins (soy, pea, wheat, oat), and emerging precision fermentation and single-cell proteins used in food, beverages, nutrition, and feed. Market estimates for 2024 place the sector in the tens of billions of US dollars, with mid-single-digit to low-double-digit CAGRs across subsegments (plant proteins growing fastest). Drivers include the growing demand for high-protein foods, sports nutrition, and clinical nutrition, as well as the shift toward plant-based and hybrid protein formulations.

Leading Exporters (Value and Volume)

Export leadership varies by ingredient: Brazil and the United States dominate global soybean flows that underpin soy protein supply, while the European Union and the United States are the largest exporters of whey and whey concentrates. Canada historically led pea exports into China but recent seasons saw Russia scale rapidly as a major pea origin for China’s pea protein industry. These origin shifts matter because they change freight patterns, processing location decisions and price signals for downstream protein ingredient processors.

Major Importers and Demand Hubs

Import demand concentrates in large processing and consumption markets. China is a leading importer of whey and plant protein feedstocks for its fast-expanding ingredient and meat-alternatives industry, while the EU and the United States are major importers of specialty isolates and concentrates for food manufacturing. Japan, South Korea and parts of Southeast Asia also import significant volumes of high-specification dairy and plant protein ingredients for infant formula, sports nutrition and fortified food lines.

Protein Ingredients Market Segmental Analysis

Product Analysis

The animal/dairy protein ingredients segment dominated the protein ingredients market in 2024, driven by higher demand for protein sources derived from dairy or animal-based ingredients. The market is also observed to be growing due to technological advancements in animal feed, pharmaceuticals, the food and beverage industry, and other related sectors. The growing demand for sports nutrition beverages and other protein sources also helps fuel market growth. The benefits of protein for muscle recovery, muscle building, and weight management are major factors driving market growth.

The insect protein segment is expected to grow over the forecast period, as insects require less feed, water, and land, further leading to lower greenhouse gas emissions. Hence, they are an ideal source of eco-friendly protein options that will help fuel the market's growth in the foreseeable future. Such protein options are also enriched with vitamins, minerals, and amino acids, which are beneficial for market growth.

Application Analysis

The food and beverage segment dominated the protein ingredients market in 2024, driven by higher demand for functional, organic, and plant-based products. The availability of protein sources in convenient forms, such as protein bars, snacks, and beverages, also helps fuel the growth of the protein ingredients industry. Higher demand for high-protein ready-to-drink beverages, baked goods, and snacks also fuels market growth. The availability of products with longer shelf life and enhanced taste and texture is another major factor driving market growth.

The animal feed segment is expected to grow over the foreseeable period due to rising demand for animal-based protein. It also leads to higher demand for high-quality, effective animal feed, which helps enhance livestock nutrition. It is a cost-effective, sustainable, and healthy option, further fueling the market’s growth. Hence, the segment will make a major contribution to the market's growth in the foreseeable future.

Feel Free to Get in Touch with Us for Orders or Any Questions at: sales@towardsfnb.com

Additional Topics Worth Exploring:

Tea Market : The global tea market size is projected to expand from USD 30.25 billion in 2025 to USD 54.68 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 6.8% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034

: The global size is projected to expand from USD 30.25 billion in 2025 to USD 54.68 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 6.8% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034 Beverage Packaging Market: The global beverage packaging market size is projected to reach USD 271.80 billion by 2034, growing from USD 173.71 billion in 2025, at a CAGR of 5.1% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

The global size is projected to reach USD 271.80 billion by 2034, growing from USD 173.71 billion in 2025, at a CAGR of 5.1% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Gluten Free Food Market: The global gluten free food market size increasing from USD 14.25 billion in 2025 and is expected to surpass USD 33.59 billion by 2034, with a projected CAGR of 10% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

The global size increasing from USD 14.25 billion in 2025 and is expected to surpass USD 33.59 billion by 2034, with a projected CAGR of 10% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Canned Wines Market: The global canned wines market size is expected to increase from USD 127.88 million in 2025 to USD 332.46 million by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 11.2% throughout the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

The global size is expected to increase from USD 127.88 million in 2025 to USD 332.46 million by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 11.2% throughout the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Plant-Based Protein Market: The global plant-based protein market size is projected to expand from USD 20.33 billion in 2025 and is expected to reach USD 43.07 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 8.7% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

The global size is projected to expand from USD 20.33 billion in 2025 and is expected to reach USD 43.07 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 8.7% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Bakery Product Market : The global bakery product market size is rising from USD 507.46 billion in 2025 to USD 821.62 billion by 2034. This projected expansion reflects a CAGR of 5.5% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

: The global size is rising from USD 507.46 billion in 2025 to USD 821.62 billion by 2034. This projected expansion reflects a CAGR of 5.5% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Coconut Products Market: The global coconut products market size is expected to climb from USD 14.18 billion in 2025 to approximately USD 33.71 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 10.1% during the forecast from 2025 to 2034.

The global is expected to climb from USD 14.18 billion in 2025 to approximately USD 33.71 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 10.1% during the forecast from 2025 to 2034. Pet Food Market: The global pet food market size is expected to increase from USD 113.02 billion in 2025 to USD 167.97 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 4.5% throughout the estimated timeframe from 2025 to 2034.

The global is expected to increase from USD 113.02 billion in 2025 to USD 167.97 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 4.5% throughout the estimated timeframe from 2025 to 2034. Organic Food Market: The global organic food market size is expected to grow from USD 253.96 billion in 2025 to USD 660.25 billion by 2034, with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 11.20% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

Top Companies in the Protein Ingredients Market

• DuPont – Develops a wide portfolio of plant-based and dairy protein ingredients used in nutrition, bakery, beverages, and meat alternatives. The company focuses on functional proteins that enhance texture, stability, and nutritional value.

• Rousselot – A global leader in gelatin and collagen peptides used in nutrition, pharmaceuticals, and functional foods. The company specializes in high-purity proteins that support health, joint care, and clean-label applications.

• ADM – Produces soy, wheat, pea, and specialty plant proteins for food, beverage, and sports nutrition categories. ADM combines large-scale processing with advanced formulation capabilities for global brands.

• Burcon – Specializes in next-generation plant proteins, including pea, canola, and hemp protein isolates. The company focuses on high-purity, allergen-friendly ingredients for dairy alternatives and functional foods.

• Tessenderlo Group – Offers specialty proteins, gelatin, and collagen ingredients used in food, pharma, and animal nutrition. The company is known for high-quality protein extraction and processing technologies.

• Kewpie Corporation – Provides egg-derived and plant-based protein ingredients used in processed foods, dressings, and nutrition products. The company focuses on functional proteins with emulsification and gelation properties.

• Roquette Freres – A major producer of pea, wheat, and potato proteins for plant-based foods, sports nutrition, and bakery applications. Roquette emphasizes sustainability and large-scale pea protein production.

• The Scoular Company – Supplies plant-based proteins and grain-derived ingredients to the food, pet, and nutrition markets. The company offers soy, pulse, and novel proteins through integrated supply chains.

• CHS, Inc. – Produces soy protein concentrates and isolates used in food processing, animal feed, and meat alternatives. CHS operates across the full agricultural value chain, ensuring consistent ingredient quality.

• Mead Johnson & Company, LLC – Specializes in pediatric and infant nutrition formulas containing high-quality milk-derived proteins. The company focuses on clinically supported protein blends for early-life nutrition.

• CropEnergies AG – Produces sustainable wheat proteins and fermentation co-products, including high-protein animal feed. The company’s protein ingredients support food, feed, and bio-based sectors.

• Fonterra Co-Operative Group – A leading global dairy cooperative providing whey proteins, caseinates, and milk protein concentrates. Fonterra focuses on high-functionality dairy proteins for nutrition and sports applications.

• Bunge Limited – Supplies soy and other plant proteins across food, beverage, and feed markets. The company leverages extensive crushing and processing assets to produce large-scale protein ingredients.

• Cargill, Incorporated – Offers soy, pea, and specialty protein ingredients used in beverages, bakery, and plant-based meats. Cargill provides integrated supply, formulation, and clean-label solutions.

• MGP – Produces wheat and pea proteins, starches, and specialty ingredients for food, beverage, and nutrition applications. The company specializes in functional proteins with strong texturizing properties.

• Ingredion – Supplies pulse, rice, and pea protein ingredients designed for plant-based foods and nutrition products. Ingredion prioritizes clean-label, gluten-free, and sustainable protein solutions.

• Kerry Inc. – Provides dairy and plant protein ingredients used in beverages, sports nutrition, and functional foods. Kerry integrates flavor systems with proteins to improve taste and performance.

• Givaudan – Develops plant-based protein solutions paired with flavor masking and texture enhancement technologies. The company focuses on improving sensory profiles in meat and dairy alternative products.

• Axiom Foods – A leader in rice, pea, and hemp protein concentrates and isolates for clean-label nutrition. The company emphasizes allergen-free, non-GMO, and sustainable protein ingredients.

• Tate & Lyle – Produces plant-based protein ingredients and functional fibers for food and beverage formulations. The company integrates proteins with sweeteners and texturizers for balanced performance.

• Puris – A major supplier of non-GMO pea protein used in plant-based meats, dairy alternatives, and beverages. Puris operates vertically integrated pea supply chains with a strong sustainability focus.

• DSM – Provides dairy, plant, and microbial proteins for specialized nutrition, including sports and early-life applications. DSM focuses on science-driven protein innovation and nutritional fortification.

• Glanbia Plc – Produces high-performance whey and functional dairy proteins widely used in sports nutrition and clinical nutrition. The company also develops plant protein blends for emerging categories.

• Louis Dreyfus Company – Offers soy and specialty plant proteins supported by global processing and trading capabilities. The company supplies ingredients for food, feed, and plant-based product sectors.

• Barentz – A global distributor of specialty proteins and nutritional ingredients used in functional foods and beverages. Barentz partners with protein manufacturers to serve multiple regions and applications.

• Nutri-Pea – Specializes in Canadian-grown pea protein concentrates and isolates used in plant-based foods and beverages. The company focuses on high-purity, allergen-friendly protein ingredients.

• Prinova Group LLC – Provides protein ingredients, amino acids, and custom nutrient premixes for food, beverage, and sports nutrition. Prinova offers formulation support and global ingredient sourcing.

Segments Covered in the Report

By Product

Plant Protein Cereals Wheat Wheat Protein Concentrates Wheat Protein Isolates Textured Wheat Protein Hydrolyzed Wheat Protein HMEC/HMMA Wheat Protein Rice Rice Protein Isolates Rice Protein Concentrates Hydrolyzed Rice Protein Others Oats Oat Protein Concentrates Oat Protein Isolates Hydrolyzed Oat Protein Others Legumes Soy Soy Protein Concentrates Soy Protein Isolates Textured Soy Protein Hydrolyzed Soy Protein HMEC/HMMA Soy Protein Pea Soy Protein Concentrates Soy Protein Isolates Textured Soy Protein Hydrolyzed Soy Protein HMEC/HMMA Soy Protein

Lupine

Chickpea

Others Roots Potato Potato Protein Concentrate Potato Protein Isolate Maca Others Ancient Grains Hemp Quinoa Sorghum Amaranth Chia Others Nuts & Seeds Canola Almond Flaxseeds Others Animal/Dairy Protein Egg Protein Milk Protein Concentrates/Isolates Whey Protein Concentrates Whey Protein Hydrolysates Whey Protein Isolates Gelatin Casein/Caseinates Collagen Peptides Microbe-based Protein Algae Bacteria Yeast Fungi Insect Protein Coleoptera Lepidoptera Hymnoptera Orthoptera Hemiptera Diptera Others

By Application

Food & Beverages Bakery & Confectionary Beverages (Non-Dairy Alternatives) Breakfast Cereals Dairy Alternatives Beverages Cheese Snacks Others

Dietary Supplements/Weight Management

Meat Alternatives & Extenders Poultry Beef Pork Others

Snacks (Non-Dairy Alternatives)

Sports Nutrition

Others

Infant Formulations

Clinical Nutrients

Animal Feed

Others

By Region

North America

U.S.

Canada

Asia Pacific

China

Japan

India

South Korea

Thailand

Europe

Germany

UK

France

Italy

Spain

Sweden

Denmark

Norway

Latin America

Brazil

Mexico

Argentina

Middle East and Africa (MEA)

South Africa

UAE

Saudi Arabia

Kuwait

Thank you for exploring our insights. For more targeted information, customized chapter-wise sections and region-specific editions such as North America, Europe, or Asia Pacific—are also available upon request.

For Detailed Pricing and Tailored Market Report Options, Click Here: https://www.towardsfnb.com/checkout/5929

Feel Free to Get in Touch with Us for Orders or Any Questions at: sales@towardsfnb.com

Unlock expert insights, custom research, and premium support with the Towards FnB Annual Membership. For USD 495/month (billed annually), get full access to exclusive F&B market data and personalized guidance. It’s your strategic edge in the food and beverage industry: https://www.towardsfnb.com/get-an-annual-membership
[Source link]: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/12/01/3197191/0/en/Protein-Ingredients-Market-Size-to-Exceed-USD-91-78-Billion-by-2034-Towards-FnB.html


[TITLE]Vegan Margarine Market Size to Worth USD 2.65 Billion by 2034 | Towards FnB:
[TEXT]
Ottawa, Dec. 01, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The global vegan margarine market size stood at USD 1.45 billion in 2024 and is predicted to increase from USD 1.54 billion in 2025 to reach around USD 2.65 billion by 2034, according to a report published by Towards FnB, a sister firm of Precedence Research. This momentum is strengthened by increasing investments in food innovation, improvements in plant-based oil processing technologies, and rising market participation from major global brands, which together are accelerating product accessibility and consumer acceptance worldwide.

The market is expected to grow as a health-conscious crowd demands plant-based options. Higher demand for plant-based dairy alternatives and other healthier options is another major factor driving market growth.

Note: This report is readily available for immediate delivery. We can review it with you in a meeting to ensure data reliability and quality for decision-making.

Access the Full Study Instantly | Download Sample Pages of the Report Now@ https://www.towardsfnb.com/download-sample/5926

Key Highlights of the Vegan Margarine Market

By region, Europe led the vegan margarine market in 2024, whereas the Asia Pacific is expected to grow in the forecasted timeframe.

By nature, the conventional segment dominated the vegan margarine market in 2024, whereas the organic segment is expected to grow in the foreseeable period.

By flavor, the salted segment dominated the vegan margarine market in 2024, whereas the unsalted segment is expected to grow in the foreseeable period.

By application, the B2B segment led the vegan margarine market in 2024, whereas the B2C segment is expected to grow in the foreseeable period.

Higher Demand for Healthier Alternatives is helpful for the Growth of the Vegan Margarine Industry

The vegan margarine market has been growing significantly in recent years due to higher demand for plant-based options, healthier alternatives, and increased consumer awareness of environmental sustainability. The vegan margarine is made from plant-derived ingredients free from milk, butter, casein, or whey. Hence, health-conscious consumers prefer healthier options, further fueling market growth. Such healthier options are usually made from canola oil, soybean oil, or corn oil, along with other ingredients such as emulsified fat, water, and plant-based milk.

The growing population of health-conscious consumers, plant-based diet followers, and vegan diet followers helps fuel the market's growth. Such diets are also healthier and helpful for people with conditions such as diabetes, high cholesterol, and high blood pressure, as well as for those who wish to lose those extra inches. Such products are also used by consumers following a flexitarian diet and seeking premium, organic options.

Technological Advancements are helpful for the Growth of the Vegan Margarine Industry

Technological advancements, such as the use of oleogels, interesterification to produce low-saturated-fat products, the incorporation of novel plant-based oils, and the development of processing methods that help replicate the taste and feel of dairy-based butter in vegan form, are helping to fuel the growth of the vegan margarine market. Emerging technologies also support the adoption of sustainable options and manufacturing methods to reduce environmental impact, which is helpful for market growth.

Recent Developments in the Vegan Margarine Market

In March 2025, Savor officially launched its plant-free and animal-free carbon-based butter. The product was soon used for special dinners hosted in New York City and San Francisco. The product is made via a thermochemical process using point-captured carbon dioxide, green hydrogen, and methane.

View Full Market Intelligence@ https://www.towardsfnb.com/insights/vegan-margarine-market

New Trends of the Vegan Margarine Market

Technological advancements that help manufacturers produce vegan options that replicate the taste and texture of dairy-based butter are a major factor in the market's growth.

Functional vegan options consisting of vitamins A and D, along with the use of low-fat ingredients, are highly opted for by health-conscious consumers, further fueling the growth of the market.

Products made from sustainable ingredients and methods are preferred by consumers, further fueling the growth of the market.

Easy availability of such products and their higher adoption by the foodservice industry are other major factors for the growth of the market.

Impact of AI in the Vegan Margarine Market

Artificial intelligence is influencing the vegan margarine market by improving formulation and production efficiency, and aligning with evolving consumer expectations for clean-label, plant-based products. In research and development, AI-powered algorithms analyze data on plant oils, emulsifiers, stabilizers, and flavor compounds to design vegan margarine that replicates the spreadability, meltability, and taste of traditional butter. Machine learning models simulate how different oil blends, such as sunflower, avocado, canola, and coconut, behave under various processing conditions, reducing trial-and-error and speeding up the development of healthier, allergen-friendly, and fortified margarine variants.

AI-driven predictive analytics optimize temperature control, mixing speeds, and crystallization steps to ensure consistent texture and stability. Computer vision systems detect defects, air pockets, or color inconsistencies in real time, helping companies maintain uniform quality and comply with food safety standards. These systems also reduce waste and improve efficiency during production and packaging.

Product Survey of the Vegan Margarine Market

Product Category Description or Function Common Forms or Variants Key Applications or End Use Segments Representative Producers or Brands Standard Vegan Margarine Plant-based margarine made without dairy ingredients for general cooking and spreading. Regular spread, table margarine, basic buttery spread Home cooking, baking, and sandwiches Flora Plant, Earth Balance, Blue Bonnet Plant-Based Organic Vegan Margarine Margarine is made from certified organic plant oils and emulsifiers. Organic spreads, organic buttery blocks Organic retail, natural food stores Nutiva Organic, Miyoko’s Creamery, 365 Organic Soy Free Vegan Margarine Formulated without soy to reduce allergen concerns. Soy-free buttery spreads made from coconut, avocado, or canola oils Allergen-sensitive consumers, clean-label buyers Earth Balance Soy Free, Melt Organic Gluten Free Vegan Margarine Margarine is free from gluten-containing ingredients. Gluten-free buttery spreads Gluten-free foods, health-focused retail Country Crock Plant Butter, Earth Balance GF High Oleic Oil Based Vegan Margarine Margarine formulated with high oleic sunflower or canola oils for improved stability. High oleic spreads, high heat margarine Baking, frying, foodservice Upfield Professional, Bunge Loders Croklaan Coconut Oil-Based Vegan Margarine Richer, creamier margarine derived from coconut oil blends. Coconut butter spreads, coconut plant butter Gourmet spreads, baking, vegan desserts Nutiva Coconut Manna, Miyoko’s Coconut-Based Spread Olive Oil-Based Vegan Margarine Premium spreads with olive oil as a key ingredient for Mediterranean-style flavor. Olive oil buttery spreads, extra virgin olive oil blends Premium retail, health-oriented consumers Olivio Plant-Based, Pure Blends Olive Oil Avocado Oil-Based Vegan Margarine Smooth, high-monounsaturated-fat spread made with avocado oil. Avocado buttery spreads Health-focused retail, clean-label consumers Country Crock Plant Butter with Avocado Oil Canola Oil-Based Vegan Margarine Neutral-tasting spread with a balanced fatty acid profile. Canola oil, margarine, blended spreads Everyday cooking, baking Earth Balance, Golden Award Vegan Spreads Vegan Block Margarine for Baking Firm margarine blocks designed to replicate butter functionality in baking. Baking blocks, pastry blocks Pastry, biscuits, bakery, foodservice Flora Plant Butter Blocks, Upfield Professional Reduced Fat Vegan Margarine Formulated to deliver lower fat content while maintaining spreadability. Light vegan spreads, low-fat margarine Diet foods, weight management Smart Balance Plant-Based Light, Private Label Vegan Margarine for Foodservice and Industrial Use Bulk margarine solutions for commercial bakery and food processors. Industrial tubs, bakery fat blocks, frying margarines Industrial baking, frying, and large kitchens Bunge, Wilmar, Upfield Foodservice Flavored Vegan Margarine Plant-based margarine with added flavors for specialty or gourmet applications. Garlic herb, smoked, sweet cinnamon Bakery, gourmet meals, retail spreads Private label, artisanal vegan spread makers Omega-3 Enriched Vegan Margarine Spread fortified with plant-derived omega oils. Flaxseed-enriched margarine, chia oil blends Health-oriented consumers, fortified foods Earth Balance Omega 3, Organic vegan fortified lines

For Detailed Pricing and Tailored Market Report Options, Click Here: https://www.towardsfnb.com/checkout/5926

Vegan Margarine Market Dynamics

What Are the Growth Drivers of the Vegan Margarine Market?

Health benefits, such as organic, sustainable, lower-cholesterol, diabetic-friendly, and plant-based options, are major drivers of market growth. Technological advancements that help give vegan margarine a dairy-like feel, taste, and texture are another major driver of the market’s growth. The market also has a large consumer base of lactose-intolerant people who are always on the lookout for plant-based, organic, and healthier options to maintain their nutritional needs.

Challenge

Higher Production Costs Are Hampering the Market’s Growth

The vegan margarine is made from plant-based, sustainable ingredients that cost more than the conventional ingredients used to make butter. The formulation involves manufacturing specific plant oils, such as olive or coconut oil, to produce the final product, which is more expensive than traditional methods. High production costs also lead to a higher final product price, which may hamper sales and further restrict the growth of the vegan margarine market.

Opportunity

Product Innovation Is Helpful for the Market’s Growth

The development of vegan margarine with non-allergen formulations to expand the consumer base is a major factor driving market growth. Infusing vegan products with essential vitamins A and D, along with clean-label ingredients and a non-GMO certification, is another major opportunity for market growth in the foreseeable future. Development in the taste, nutritional, and texture profiles of vegan products helps attract more consumer attention and fuels the market’s growth.

Vegan Margarine Market Regional Analysis

Europe Dominated the Vegan Margarine Market in 2024

Europe dominated the vegan margarine market in 2024 due to higher consumer demand for organic, sustainable, plant-based, and healthier alternatives. The growing population of health-conscious consumers following a plant-based, vegan, or flexitarian diet is fueling market growth in the region.

Technological advancements that enhance the taste, texture, and quality of vegan margarine are another major factor driving the market's growth in the region. Countries such as Germany, France, and the UK have made major contributions to the market's growth, with Germany topping the list. Consumers in the country highly prefer vegan, plant-based, and healthier food options to maintain their health profiles, further fueling market growth.

Asia Pacific Is Expected to Grow in the Forecast Period

Asia Pacific is expected to grow over the forecast period due to increased adoption of various diets, such as vegetarian, vegan, plant-based, and flexitarian. A large vegetarian population seeking organic, healthier, and sustainable options is another major factor driving the growth of the vegan margarine market in the foreseeable future.

Rapid urbanization, rising disposable income, and higher demand for vegan options also help fuel market growth. Countries such as India, China, Japan, and South Korea have made major contributions to the market's growth, driven by the growing number of health-conscious people seeking healthier food options to maintain their health profiles.

North America Is Observed to Have a Notable Growth in the Foreseeable Period

North America is expected to see notable growth over the forecast period due to high demand for healthier, vegan food options. Higher demand for plant-based, healthy, and functional food options in the region is another major factor driving market growth. The market is also seeing growth driven by the region's growing population of flexitarians, who demand vegan and dairy-free options. The US and Canada make major contributions to market growth due to health-conscious consumers, the trend toward plant-based and sustainable diets, and the growing number of vegans and flexitarians.

Vegan Margarine Market Report Scope

Report Attribute Key Statistics Base Year 2024 Forecast Period 2025 to 2034 Growth Rate from 2025 to 2034 CAGR of 6.2% Market Size in 2025 USD 1.54 Billion Market Size in 2026 USD 1.64 Billion Market Size by 2034 USD 2.65 Billion Dominated Region Europe Fastest Growing Region Asia Pacific Regions Covered North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Middle East & Africa

Have Questions? Let’s Talk—Schedule a Meeting with Our Insights Team: https://www.towardsfnb.com/schedule-meeting

Vegan Margarine Market Segmental Analysis

Nature Analysis

The conventional segment led the vegan margarine market in 2024 due to its multiple health benefits for heart health, cholesterol, and cardiovascular health. The manufacturing process for vegan margarine is also eco-friendly, with multiple health benefits, further enhancing the market's growth. Such products are healthier, have a lower environmental impact, and are more nutritious. People with certain allergies and health issues also make a major contribution to the growth of the vegan margarine market

The organic segment is expected to grow over the foreseeable period due to higher demand for plant-based and functional ingredients, which are driving market growth. Higher demand for sustainable, eco-friendly options to reduce environmental impact is another major factor driving the market’s growth. Higher demand for functional baking using organic ingredients is another major factor driving market growth in the foreseeable future.

Flavor Analysis

The salted segment dominated the vegan margarine market in 2024 due to its taste and texture similar to dairy butter. Vegan margarine’s taste is similar to dairy butter, with added health benefits, which is another major factor driving market growth. The vegan margarine is low in cholesterol, diabetic-friendly, and made with plant-based ingredients, further fueling the market's growth.

The unsalted segment is expected to grow over the forecast period due to its high demand in the baking and cooking industries, fueling market growth. The unsalted vegan margarine is also essential for consumers with various lifestyle-related issues, further fueling the market’s growth. Such products are also beneficial for people to lower their excess sodium intake.

Distribution Channel Analysis

The B2B segment dominated the market in 2024 due to high demand for vegan margarine across the baking, cooking, and fast-food manufacturing industries as a substitute for salted butter. The vegan margarine is a cost-effective, healthier alternative, further fueling market growth. The vegan margarine also provides a similar texture and taste to regular butter for baked goods, along with various health benefits, making it highly demanded in the market.

The B2C segment is expected to grow in the foreseen period due to its multiple health benefits and cost-effectiveness. Such options are healthier and are ideal for consumers suffering from lifestyle-related health issues such as diabetes, cholesterol, obesity, or other similar problems. Higher demand for product innovation and innovative flavors in margarine and spreads is another major factor driving market growth. Hence, such factors, when compiled, help fuel the market's growth in the foreseeable period.

Feel Free to Get in Touch with Us for Orders or Any Questions at: sales@towardsfnb.com

Additional Topics Worth Exploring:

Tea Market : The global tea market size is projected to expand from USD 30.25 billion in 2025 to USD 54.68 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 6.8% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034

: The global size is projected to expand from USD 30.25 billion in 2025 to USD 54.68 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 6.8% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034 Beverage Packaging Market: The global beverage packaging market size is projected to reach USD 271.80 billion by 2034, growing from USD 173.71 billion in 2025, at a CAGR of 5.1% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

The global size is projected to reach USD 271.80 billion by 2034, growing from USD 173.71 billion in 2025, at a CAGR of 5.1% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Gluten Free Food Market: The global gluten free food market size increasing from USD 14.25 billion in 2025 and is expected to surpass USD 33.59 billion by 2034, with a projected CAGR of 10% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

The global size increasing from USD 14.25 billion in 2025 and is expected to surpass USD 33.59 billion by 2034, with a projected CAGR of 10% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Canned Wines Market: The global canned wines market size is expected to increase from USD 127.88 million in 2025 to USD 332.46 million by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 11.2% throughout the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

The global size is expected to increase from USD 127.88 million in 2025 to USD 332.46 million by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 11.2% throughout the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Plant-Based Protein Market: The global plant-based protein market size is projected to expand from USD 20.33 billion in 2025 and is expected to reach USD 43.07 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 8.7% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

The global size is projected to expand from USD 20.33 billion in 2025 and is expected to reach USD 43.07 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 8.7% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Bakery Product Market : The global bakery product market size is rising from USD 507.46 billion in 2025 to USD 821.62 billion by 2034. This projected expansion reflects a CAGR of 5.5% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

: The global size is rising from USD 507.46 billion in 2025 to USD 821.62 billion by 2034. This projected expansion reflects a CAGR of 5.5% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034. Coconut Products Market: The global coconut products market size is expected to climb from USD 14.18 billion in 2025 to approximately USD 33.71 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 10.1% during the forecast from 2025 to 2034.

The global is expected to climb from USD 14.18 billion in 2025 to approximately USD 33.71 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 10.1% during the forecast from 2025 to 2034. Pet Food Market: The global pet food market size is expected to increase from USD 113.02 billion in 2025 to USD 167.97 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 4.5% throughout the estimated timeframe from 2025 to 2034.

The global is expected to increase from USD 113.02 billion in 2025 to USD 167.97 billion by 2034, growing at a CAGR of 4.5% throughout the estimated timeframe from 2025 to 2034. Organic Food Market: The global organic food market size is expected to grow from USD 253.96 billion in 2025 to USD 660.25 billion by 2034, with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 11.20% during the forecast period from 2025 to 2034.

Top Companies in the Vegan Margarine Market

Compassionate Choices Pvt. Ltd. – An India-based producer of plant-based butter and margarine alternatives using vegetable oils and clean-label formulations. The company focuses on ethical, dairy-free spreads for retail and foodservice markets.

– An India-based producer of plant-based butter and margarine alternatives using vegetable oils and clean-label formulations. The company focuses on ethical, dairy-free spreads for retail and foodservice markets. PT Sinar Mas Agro Resources and Technology Tbk – An Indonesia-based agribusiness manufacturer producing vegan margarine and specialty fats made from sustainably sourced palm and vegetable oils. Its products are widely used across baking, confectionery, and industrial applications.

– An Indonesia-based agribusiness manufacturer producing vegan margarine and specialty fats made from sustainably sourced palm and vegetable oils. Its products are widely used across baking, confectionery, and industrial applications. Amarlane Foods – An Israel-based manufacturer offering plant-based margarine solutions for household and commercial baking. The company emphasizes allergen-friendly, dairy-free formulations aligned with vegan and kosher markets.

– An Israel-based manufacturer offering plant-based margarine solutions for household and commercial baking. The company emphasizes allergen-friendly, dairy-free formulations aligned with vegan and kosher markets. Earth Balance – A U.S. category leader in dairy-free spreads, producing vegan margarine, buttery sticks, and organic variants. The brand is known for natural vegetable oil blends and strong distribution in retail and foodservice channels.

– A U.S. category leader in dairy-free spreads, producing vegan margarine, buttery sticks, and organic variants. The brand is known for natural vegetable oil blends and strong distribution in retail and foodservice channels. Flora Food Group – A Netherlands-based producer of plant-based margarines made from sustainable vegetable oils. The brand focuses on environmentally responsible production and offers widely recognized dairy-free spreads across Europe.

– A Netherlands-based producer of plant-based margarines made from sustainable vegetable oils. The brand focuses on environmentally responsible production and offers widely recognized dairy-free spreads across Europe. Naturli’ Foods A/S – A Denmark-based pioneer in plant-based dairy alternatives, offering vegan butter and margarine made from coconut, rapeseed, and other natural oils. The company is known for clean-label products and strong sustainability commitments.

– A Denmark-based pioneer in plant-based dairy alternatives, offering vegan butter and margarine made from coconut, rapeseed, and other natural oils. The company is known for clean-label products and strong sustainability commitments. Miyoko’s Kitchen – A U.S. company specializing in premium vegan butters crafted from nuts and plant cultures. Its artisanal, dairy-free formulations target both home consumers and professional chefs.

– A U.S. company specializing in premium vegan butters crafted from nuts and plant cultures. Its artisanal, dairy-free formulations target both home consumers and professional chefs. Danone S.A. – A France-based multinational providing plant-based dairy alternatives through its global brands. Its vegan margarine offerings support the company’s broader shift toward sustainable and dairy-free nutrition solutions.

– A France-based multinational providing plant-based dairy alternatives through its global brands. Its vegan margarine offerings support the company’s broader shift toward sustainable and dairy-free nutrition solutions. Daiya Foods – A Canada-based producer of dairy-free foods, offering vegan margarine and buttery spreads as part of its allergen-friendly product line. The company avoids dairy, gluten, soy, and other common allergens.

– A Canada-based producer of dairy-free foods, offering vegan margarine and buttery spreads as part of its allergen-friendly product line. The company avoids dairy, gluten, soy, and other common allergens. Melt Organic – A U.S. brand producing organic vegan margarine blends based on coconut, flaxseed, and palm fruit oils. Its spreads are designed for clean-label consumers seeking functional, nutrient-rich plant-based alternatives.

Segments Covered in the Report

By Nature

Conventional

Organic

By Flavor

Salted

Unsalted

By Application

B2B (Supermarket/Hypermarket)

B2C

Convenience Store

Specialty Store

E-Retailers

Others

By Region

North America

U.S.

Canada

Asia Pacific

China

Japan

India

South Korea

Thailand

Europe

Germany

UK

France

Italy

Spain

Sweden

Denmark

Norway

Latin America

Brazil

Mexico

Argentina

Middle East and Africa (MEA)

South Africa

UAE

Saudi Arabia

Kuwait

Thank you for exploring our insights. For more targeted information, customized chapter-wise sections and region-specific editions such as North America, Europe, or Asia Pacific—are also available upon request.

For Detailed Pricing and Tailored Market Report Options, Click Here: https://www.towardsfnb.com/checkout/5926

Feel Free to Get in Touch with Us for Orders or Any Questions at: sales@towardsfnb.com

Unlock expert insights, custom research, and premium support with the Towards FnB Annual Membership. For USD 495/month (billed annually), get full access to exclusive F&B market data and personalized guidance. It’s your strategic edge in the food and beverage industry: https://www.towardsfnb.com/get-an-annual-membership
[Source link]: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2025/12/01/3197147/0/en/Vegan-Margarine-Market-Size-to-Worth-USD-2-65-Billion-by-2034-Towards-FnB.html


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: amazon
symbol: AMZN
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1764723816
name: amazon
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: flipkart
name: flipkart
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: meesho
name: meesho
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: n/a
name: n/a
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

[TITLE]Why Taiwan is Asia’s underrated food capital for travellers and foodies:
[TEXT]
Centuries of systematic marginalisation means you won’t easily stumble upon indigenous fare in Taiwan, but search and you can find. The eastern city of Hualien is home to the Taiwan Indigenous Peoples’ Cooks’ Alliance, a group within the Slow Food movement, which promotes and protects traditional indigenous culinary cultures. Its night market Dongdamen has a row dedicated to indigenous food stalls. Look for abai – purple rice, millet, minced pork and bitter herbs wrapped in perilla leaves, sticky rice steamed inside bamboo, smoked sweet potato and millet wine.

Abai, a traditional dish made with rice. Photo / 123RF

Indigenous cuisine is also appearing in fine-dining settings, such as at Akame in rural Pintung County and at Taipei restaurant Embers.

China’s culinary fingerprints

Migration from certain parts of China has a huge influence on Taiwanese cuisine. Hakka people were early migrants and today 20% of the population claim Hakka ancestry. In the banqueting room of Hakka restaurant Shi-Ting in Hualien we feasted on a never-ending stream of specialties emerging from a humble kitchen: smoked pork, steamed chicken with kumquat sauce, thick rice noodles, pork cooked in fermented red yeast rice and delicate peanut mochi, freshly made from a heavy ball of sticky dough by the lady of the house at an empty table in the main dining room.

Hokkien fare from China’s southern Fujian province also stars in Taiwan cuisine with some of the most popular street foods – oyster omelette, beef noodle soup, braised pork on rice, bawan (sticky rice balls or rolls stuffed with savoury fillings) and the famously pungent chou doufu (stinky tofu). If you don’t at least try the latter, did you even visit Taiwan?

Taiwan has a melting pot of cuisines. Photo / Unsplash

Ditch cereal for a unique breakfast

Fu Hang Soy Milk is one of Taipei’s favourite brekkie spots and places like it can be found all over. The fresh, hot soy milk (dou jiang) is the signature dish – watch it being made from scratch and served up from steaming vats, piping hot and sweet, and dunk youtiao (fried bread sticks) into it. Also order fresh bing – filled breads either thick and baked in a tandoor-like oven (hu jiao bing) or crepe thin and fried (dan bing) with various savoury fillings.

Michelin Guide night markets

Taiwan is blessed with night markets aplenty and Taipei’s Roahe market, lit like a fairground, is one of the biggest and best, boasting six stalls recognised by the Michelin Guide. Among the must-try items are Fuzhou black pepper buns, fried taro balls stuffed with cheese, giant crisp chicken cutlets, Taiwanese sausage, and grilled squid with garlic and Thai basil. Have a sweet tooth? Don’t miss desserts like mango shaved ice, tanghulu (candied fruit skewers) and, my favourite, fried milk, a delicious enigma that is crispy on the outside, custardy on the inside.

World-famous dumplings

In 1949 the retreat of the Kuomintang Government saw up to two million political emigres arrive in Taiwan, bringing with them foods from all over China, including Shanghai. Din Tai Fung, the cult restaurant brand built on Shanghainese xiaolongbao (soup dumplings) was born in Taipei and today boasts branches around the globe including 11 in Taiwan. At popular branches such as Taipei 101 (do go to the top of the tower while there for the most incredible view), you must book or you’ll queue forever. Of course, order the xiaolongbao and plenty of them, but also order prawn dumplings in spicy sauce, crunchy cucumber salad, fried rice with truffle sliced across it at the table, and save room for dark chocolate dumplings.

Dim sum. Photo / Unsplash

Where bubble tea began

Taiwanese teahouse Chun Shui Tang claims to have invented bubble tea (aka boba, pearl milk tea) when some clever person added tapioca pearls to iced milk tea in its Taichung store in 1987. Today it boasts branches all over the island; visit for classic pearl milk tea, made with only natural ingredients and designed to be just right at “full sweet” (a level which might shatter your teeth at some places). As was the tradition with teahouses, food is also served – excellent salty and spicy snacks like spicy tofu, kung fu noodles and spicy chicken feet.

The famous Taiwanese bubble milk tea. Photo / 123RF

...and where proper tea flourishes

Speaking of tea, Taiwan produces it: oolong, green, white and black. A 40-minute drive out of central Taipei in the forested hills of Xizhi, the Shi-Yang is a tranquil retreat, an architecturally designed teahouse and restaurant. We began with a hyper-seasonal degustation of ten beautifully presented small dishes, then climbed the stairs to be welcomed into a tea ceremony with cha shui (tea master) Ms Chen.
[Source link]: https://www.nzherald.co.nz/travel/why-taiwan-is-asias-underrated-food-capital-for-travellers-and-foodies/3GI6WLKW2NBFHJWB4COZ7PV7AY/


No companies mentioned in this section

================================================================================

[TITLE]EXCLUSIVE: Eileen Fisher, Reformation and Everlane Join Aii to Foster Change from Ground Up:
[TEXT]
Everleenformation? Referlanefisher? Susan Scow, sustainability impact specialist at Eileen Fisher, doesn’t have a snappy portmanteau for the three-way tie-up between Everlane, Reformation and her brand, but she’s open to suggestions.

While collaboration is far from an off-piste phenomenon in fashion—think Skims x Nike, Levi’s x Barbour and Uniqlo x Marimekko, to name a few—this one is. For one thing, it isn’t a marketing grab to try and sell more clothing. For another, it takes place far further upstream in the supply chain than retailers are wont to link arms. The partnership could even supply a blueprint for a new way of working to help the industry hit its climate goals when money and resources are under strain from a turbulent and unpredictable market.

It was the Apparel Impact Institute, a San Francisco-headquartered nonprofit that seeks to identify, fund and scale proven solutions that can decarbonize apparel and footwear manufacturing, that first suggested in 2024 that the three companies tag-team on a handful of strategic suppliers they had in common, in effect co-sponsoring six emissions-reduction programs involving target-setting and low-hanging-fruit tweaks like automating shut-offs to conserve energy and insulating hot water pipes and steam valves.

The idea, Scow said, was to reduce initiative fatigue, both for the suppliers and the brands wrestling with a burgeoning number of regulatory and reporting requirements, not to mention mounting public scrutiny over what they’re doing to combat global warming. Factories are regularly inundated with buyer requests to make their processes more energy efficient by changing light bulbs, upgrading outdated machinery or installing solar panels, all of which come with a hefty initial monetary outlay. By pooling together their leverage and access to capital, and applying them in a streamlined manner, the brands hoped to alleviate some of those burdens in a way they hadn’t been able to before.

“If we were not collaborating with other brands, we would not be able to access these deeper tiers of the supply chain and make the business case for investing in their decarbonization,” she said. “Without this, I’m not even sure how much we’d be able to engage with Tiers 2 and 3.”

With Foshan Chicley Textile Co., a dyeing and finishing facility that works with mostly cotton, linen and man-made cellulosic fabrics at the heart of the Pearl River Delta in southern China, Eileen Fisher, Everlane, Reformation have agreed to go a step further, by co-funding deeper decarbonization interventions with technical guidance from Aii and its partners, including Reset Carbon, a Hong Kong-based consultancy, and BluWin, a “high-impact” carbon solutions provider from the United Kingdom.

“I think that this is a really novel approach, not just to co-nominate these facilities in the first place, like in the in the assessment and the build-up of what the potential is, but taking this next step of coming together to co-invest in the real piece that’s very capital intensive,” said Katina Boutis, senior director of sustainability at sourcing at Everlane. “This is the way that we can actually have really meaningful, tangible, long-term changes. And we’ve certainly heard from suppliers about how tough the industry, especially right now. It takes a lot to get funding mechanisms at a supplier level to be able to transform or make this type of capital improvement.”

That fashion has fewer than five years to reach its Science Based Targets, coupled with ever-contracting budgets due to the continuing volatility of the geoeconomic landscape, drove a high sense of urgency to put the industry’s talk about collective action into practice, said Andrés Bragagnini, Aii’s senior manager of strategic management.

He didn’t have to look very far, however, to find a group of brands that shared the same abhorrence of green window dressing: Eileen Fisher has committed to reducing its Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 100 percent and its Scope 3 emissions by 25 percent by the end of the year; Everlane plans to lower its emission per product by 2030; and Reformation wants to be climate positive by 2025, removing more carbon from the atmosphere than it generates, and fully circular by 2030.

“We were completely flexible to how the brands wanted to approach this from a funding and engagement perspective,” he said. “Once we had a list of factories, we agreed on budgets, and then they provided the outreach to the facility, the buy-in, the commitment to the facility, and then everything is handed over to our programs team to enroll engineers, measure capacity and start the program calendar from assessing all the way to building the deliverables.”

If Scope 3 is where the overwhelming majority of a retailer’s emissions lie, it’s the material processing phase, or Tier 2, of its supply chain that remains the highest source of pollution at 55 percent of total greenhouse gases because of the tremendous energy and chemistry needed to transform fiber into a yarn or a finished fabric, according to Aii. This is followed by raw material extraction (Tier 4) at 21 percent, raw material processing (Tier 3) at 15 percent and finished goods assembly (Tier 1) at 9 percent.

But a brand’s influence, which is strongest at the cutting-and-sewing, or Tier 1, phase, waters down the further up the supply chain it goes. At wet-processing facilities, for instance, brands have no real ownership or influence aside from a volume-driven perspective.

“Before, we were only using the leverage and relationships that Reformation had as an individual brand,” said Carrie Freiman Parry, the It Girl label’s senior director of sustainability. “Now, we’re able to credibly say, ‘Hey, it’s not only Reformation that is asking for this,’ and make a real case for why it’s needed at an industry level.”

For Victor Li, general manager at Foshan Chicley Textile Co., engaging with three brands at the same time is new territory. The three brands have slightly different emphases in their decarbonization strategies—he described Eileen Fisher with a laugh as being “extreme sustainable”—which makes it more time-consuming to arrive at a consensus. Having a single set of deliverables in this pre-competitive space, however, makes things easier to manage.

“If everyone’s asking for their own decarbonization project, I’ll work myself to death,” he said. “Some brands may want to do certain things first; others may want to do a little bit later.”

This “coming together” also places suppliers in the center, making them more likely to acquiesce to a decarbonization roadmap, Bragagnini said. Having key buyers align on their sustainability approaches, fundraising and engagement, he said, has been a “huge one” that gets suppliers to buy in quicker than when presented with proposals from individual brands.

“There’s been a lot of fill in this questionnaire, fill in this other digital assessment, fill in this other tool,” he said. “So this has helped reduce that data fatigue and move at an accelerated pace.”

Staying clear of anti-trust concerns by setting up certain boundaries has been easy, as far as Scow is concerned. Nobody divulges what percentage of their volume a supplier might encompass, saying instead whether a factory is strategic for them or not. Everyone in the sustainability teams also has a degree of separation from the product development and design departments, which helps them sidestep potentially sensitive IP, such as products or fabrications. Perhaps one of the biggest hurdles? “Scheduling, literally,” she said. “It’s so hard; we all manage so many different things.”

“On the flip side, it helps to have someone pick up the slack,” Scow added. “If I’m overwhelmed and exhausted and working on something completely over here in this other corner of my work, especially related to human rights, then the ladies from Reformation and Everlane often step in and say, ‘Hey, we dropped the ball collectively. Let’s get something on the calendar.’”

Parry said that broader industry challenges, such as supply chain and sourcing needs, along with team bandwidth, are all things they have to navigate. Identifying potential future opportunities and partners, too, is something that requires effort because not everyone is a Reformation or an Eileen Fisher or an Everlane. By allowing engagement to be brand-led, Aii is also free to do what it’s good at—technical implementation—rather than spending time “working with each brand in a silo and acting as a go-between,” she said.

“We’d love to invite more brands to participate; at some point, we’ll exhaust our list of shared suppliers,” Parry said. “We’ll need more brands to join the collaboration so that we can continue these streamlined decarbonization projects across different supply chains.”

And it’s not only the three brands that will benefit. All the retailers who buy from the suppliers their collaboration covers will get a boost as well. It may sound counterintuitive to help out a rival at your own cost, but finding opportunities to create much wider social and environmental impacts “fortifies and strengthens our industry,” particularly during lean times, Boutis said.

“We’ll be able to quantify within our own product carbon footprints, but it will also be a much more meaningful ripple effect across the rest of the industry,” she said. “I keep reminding myself and anybody that I talk to about this that we all work in a shared supply chain in one way or another, and I think that is what’s driving this work—and what’s most important. So hopefully this is a highly replicable thing, and if we can do it, I think anyone can do it.”

This article appeared in Sourcing Journal’s Sustainability Report. To download the full report, click here.
[Source link]: https://sourcingjournal.com/sustainability/sustainability-news/fashion-brands-supply-chain-decarbonization-efforts-1234792045/


[TITLE]From Martha Stewart to Dockers to Toys “R” Us, brand managers are raking in billions betting on classic American names:
[TEXT]
A mystery has been roiling longtime wearers of Dockers’ ubiquitous khaki men’s pants: Why are things dropping out of people’s pockets when they sit down?

“My change and keys fall out sitting,” posted Robert C.
[Source link]: https://fortune.com/2025/11/30/brand-management-martha-stewart-dockers-brooks-brothers/


[TITLE]Former Gap CEO reveals the only thing that could save Target:
[TEXT]
The road back to glory won't be easy for incoming Target (TGT) CEO Michael Fiddelke.

If he has any shot at finally hitting some bull's-eyes on earnings days, then he has to restore Target's cheap chic DNA — and even that may not be a ticket to success in an economy that's favoring price leader Walmart (WMT).

"Target used to be a very, very forward-thinking company," former Gap and J.Crew CEO Mickey Drexler said on Yahoo Finance's Opening Bid (video above). "And I'm sure the new CEO is very smart. But you've also got to look at product and merchandise, and that's like a restaurant serving good food. And if the food lacks key ingredients, you know, that's not good food in a sense. But it's the same with merchandise. It's got to taste good, it's got to look good, and it's got to have newness. That's the oxygen of any business."

Drexler sat on the board of Apple (AAPL) for 16 years (alongside Steve Jobs). Today, he's the chairman of the apparel company Alex Mill.

As for Target, it has consistently delivered on one thing in 2025: serving up brutal warnings about its business on earnings days.

The discount retailer cut its full-year profit guidance on Nov. 19 and warned of a tepid holiday season as strapped consumers battle through an affordability crisis for food, healthcare, and housing.

The cautious spending wasn't hard to find in Target's results.

The number of transactions declined year over year. Sales dropped in more discretionary departments, such as beauty and home furnishings.

Target promised to ramp up capital expenditures by 25% in 2026 to improve the appearance of its stores. The company said it cut prices on 3,000 food and household essential items in November.

"We believe there is a path to win regardless of how the macro environments will continue to evolve around us," Fiddelke told Yahoo Finance on a call with reporters at the time.

Fiddelke — a Target veteran — will officially succeed longtime CEO Brian Cornell on Feb. 1, 2026.

The market is calling Fiddelke's bluff that the company could win in a mixed to softening US economic backdrop, one where tariffs are weighing on costs.

Target's stock is down 34% year to date. Walmart — which will see US stores chief John Furner assume the CEO position from Doug McMillon in early 2026 — has seen its stock advance 23%.

Most analysts on the Street have Neutral or Sell ratings on Target's stock.

Drexler added, "You can't argue with Walmart's results, or even Costco's."
[Source link]: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/former-gap-ceo-reveals-the-only-thing-that-could-save-target-130836533.html


[TITLE]This Holiday Shopping Season, Consumers Are Extra Divided as Retailers Push Sales – Commercial Observer:
[TEXT]
If you noticed holiday decor going up and “All I Want for Christmas Is You” playing in stores well before Halloween this year, that was no coincidence.

Retailers are pushing holiday sales — including Black Friday deals — earlier than ever before, largely due to economic uncertainty caused by tariffs, inflation and changing consumer spending habits. The uncertainty, too, is leading to a certain bifurcation in retail.

“I’m shocked every year at how much earlier sales come,” said Shaun Pappas, an attorney at Midtown-based law firm Starr Associates, which focuses on retail. “But this year seems like it’s as early as it’s been. At some point we’ll be shopping for Christmas in August.”

Indeed, stores like Best Buy, Target, Walmart and Kohl’s rolled out early-season promotions as soon as late September this year (and Black Friday discounts way before the post-Thanksgiving shopping stampede). It’s crazy, but it also seems to be working — early sales have already driven a decent amount of foot traffic to stores and malls.

Retail foot traffic in U.S. downtowns rose 0.8 percent month-over-month in October, while shopping malls saw an increase in foot traffic of 2.4 percent, offering retailers some “holiday hope,” according to a recent report from MRI Software.

“Promotionality is going to be the key driver for consumers this holiday season,” said Elizabeth Lafontaine, a retail analyst at foot traffic tracker Placer.ai. “That’s really going to be when consumers want to come out. … Consumers are really trying to be keyed and glued into when those promotions are going to be taking place to try to make sure that they’re driving as much value as possible.”

Plus, the earlier retailers start pushing holiday sales, the more money they could make. In fact, the National Retail Federation predicted retail sales in November and December will grow between 3.7 percent and 4.2 percent from 2024, translating to total spending between $1.01 trillion and $1.02 trillion. That’s compared to last year’s total spending of $976.1 billion.

So, whether you’re already stuffing your Christmas stocking with gifts or you’re taking after the Grinch this holiday season, it seems like there’s no stopping early holiday sales.

But we also can’t forget why those sales are happening in the first place. The threat of higher costs and delayed shipments caused by ever-changing tariffs are all but forcing small retailers and low-income consumers to save money and prioritize big-box sales and early discounts.

Meanwhile, a lot of higher-income consumers are taking a different approach amid all the hubbub — they’re essentially kicking back and relaxing, as those financial burdens don’t really fall on their shoulders.

“Holiday sales will likely surpass last year’s by a low single-digit margin, but capturing that growth in today’s highly bifurcated consumer environment will be more challenging than ever,” said Brandon Svec, national director of U.S. retail analytics for CoStar.

In that lies possibly the biggest obstacle facing today’s retailers — what Placer.ai calls a “two-tier economy” among consumers.

According to a new report from Placer.ai, affluent shoppers are driving profit growth in the luxury sector, while budget-conscious shoppers seek deals at value-oriented stores. In other words, the bifurcation between the two classes of consumers will grow even starker this year as low-income shoppers are forced to balance “needs versus wants” amid unsteady financial conditions.

“The two-tier economy essentially references a phenomenon that we started to see emerging in early 2025 that has really kind of exploded over the past few months, and it’s really similar to what we’ve called the bifurcation of consumers,” said Lafontaine, an author of the report.

“We see [affluent consumers] continue to have high levels of discretionary and disposable income and high levels of price elasticity, meaning that even as prices are going up, we’re not necessarily seeing them change their consumption habits,” Lafontaine added. “On the opposite end of the spectrum, what we’re seeing with lower- and middle-income household shoppers is that they are becoming much more financially constrained as the year has gone on, leading them to start to change some of their retail behaviors and look for high levels of value orientation.”

That consumer divide is clear in store performance, as both luxury and off-price apparel retailers are currently outpacing overall retail.

High-end spots like luxury department stores, specialty grocery stores and fine-dining restaurants are experiencing “steady traffic” this year compared to last year, Placer.ai’s report said. Luxury department stores saw a year-over-year increase in visits of 3.8 percent during the second quarter of 2025, while speciality grocery stores saw an 8.1 percent increase and upscale restaurants saw a 4 percent increase.

Meanwhile, off-price retailers and dollar stores are also seeing large increases in visits, at 6.6 percent and 3.7 percent, respectively, according to the report. Value-driven grocery chain Aldi has even seen total visits rise from 4.3 percent in 2022 to 5.7 percent in 2025 to-date, Placer.ai said.

Plus, a retail report from Newmark found that secondhand and consignment clothing stores saw a 10.7 percent increase in visits year-over-year during the third quarter, largely due to younger shoppers “trading down” and turning to more affordable resale and consignment options.

It’s all a result of money-conscious consumers plagued by financial burdens — such as skyrocketing credit card debt and worsening home affordability — increasingly looking for the lowest prices amid tariff-related cost increases.

“Consumers are entering the season both price-sensitive and well-informed, and retailers must navigate an earlier promotional calendar while driving sales and protecting already razor-thin margins,” Svec said. “That’s a tough balancing act and one that demands a highly strategic approach to markdowns.”

For now, though, retailers seem to be doing fairly well, especially if demand for space in New York City is any indication. Popular Manhattan shopping neighborhoods such as SoHo and the Upper East Side have continued to see steady leasing, with SoHo seeing a total of 45,022 square feet leased during the third quarter of 2025 and the Upper East Side seeing the most deals completed with 11 transactions, according to a report from CBRE.

“New York City’s retail environment has been extremely vibrant, and we’ve seen a lot of lease-up,” said Jackie Totolo, a senior managing director at Newmark. “There’s demand from every sector. Prices have been driven up so high where it becomes unaffordable, but I think that we’ve seen stabilization, which has created tremendous more demand. … I think that good areas keep getting better, and we continue to see that grow.”

In terms of retail tenants signing those leases, food and beverage tenants have dominated Manhattan’s retail market lately in both lease volume and number of deals, according to CBRE’s report. The category saw more than 121,000 square feet leased across 35 transactions during the third quarter, with the largest being bakery Bread & Butter’s deal for 12,000 square feet at 525 Lexington Avenue.

But one of the largest recent retail leases in the city came just after that third quarter, when Chelsea Piers Management, which manages the sprawling Chelsea Piers Sports & Entertainment Complex, signed a lease for 48,833 square feet at GFP Real Estate’s 200 Varick Street in Hudson Square in early October.

“Experiential types of retail have also been big, like membership clubs or gyms,” Pappas said. “But, just in general, it seems like brick-and-mortar is coming back to the point where even online stores want a physical footprint. During COVID, a lot of those stores shut down, and there was a lot of vacancy. But if you look down Madison Avenue and at the Upper East Side, a lot of those vacancies are being filled.”

Still, the growing bifurcation of consumers is also evident in the city’s recent retail leasing, in that both luxury brands and off-price brands are taking chunks of space off the market.

For example, high-end health and wellness brand Life Time took 52,000 square feet at 10 Bryant Park, while Swiss luxury watchmaker Rolex is opening a new store in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. On the other end, Mott Haven Discount signed a deal for roughly 10,000 square feet for its first Bronx location, while dollar stores — specifically Dollar Tree — are doing better than ever in terms of sales.

While the gap between consumers deepens, it remains to be seen which end consumers in the middle of the market — i.e., in New York, those households that make between $56,385 and $168,156 annually as of this year — will shop on. Do they splurge and go for luxury brands, or guard the piggy bank and stick to deals and discounts?

“It’s definitely macroeconomics driving all of this,” Totolo said. “We’ve seen prices increase, and consumers are sensitive to that. What we will see in the holiday season — which has been pulled forward — is steeper discounts driving sales from a gross perspective. … The aspirational category may not be getting hit because the top is only shopping at the top, and the bottom is shopping at the lower ends.”

So the question remains: How can retailers appeal to all types of consumers, no matter their income level? There’s a lot of possible answers, but according to Svec, retailers need to create a sense of urgency to get all kinds of shoppers through their doors.

“While the value shopper is focused on price and timing, the affluent consumer continues to prioritize experience and quality,” Svec said. “This widening divide makes it difficult to appeal to both ends of the spectrum, but retailers that can create a sense of buying urgency, while staying relevant to both audiences, will be the biggest winners of this holiday season.”

Early holiday sales — especially ones that have an expiration — are a good way to create that sense of urgency, but they also pose the risk of overwhelming customers, according to David Wachs, founder of handwritten notes service Handwrytten.

“We saw holiday jingles come before October,” Wachs said. “It’s frightening. We’re all going to be so burnt out on ‘Have a Holly Jolly Christmas.’ I think if you push sales super early, you’re going to be drowned out by the cacophony of everybody else pushing sales super early.”

Wachs’s answer on how retailers can appeal to all consumers this year is simple: Get creative.

“Brands really need to get very creative to find ways to appeal to the consumer on an emotional level, and throwing more against the wall is not an emotional connection,” Wachs said. “You have to do multiple things to get in front of that consumer, and you have to pivot right when everybody’s pivoting left.”

One of the ways to do that is by sending handwritten notes to customers to show appreciation and loyalty, which Wachs’s Handwrytten company helps to provide.

Handwrytten works with a variety of companies, ranging from large fashion houses to department store chains to dog food brands. Through its personalized handwritten notes, Wachs said his company has generated a 17 times greater response rate from customers compared to emails or print advertisements.

And, while creating a sense of urgency and getting creative with branding certainly works, Lafontaine said she thinks the best way for retailers to appeal to all customers this holiday season is to provide them with a sense of value or experience.

“It’s not just
[Source link]: http://commercialobserver.com/2025/11/holiday-shopping-season-2025-trends/


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: eileen fisher
name: eileen fisher
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: everlane
name: everlane
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: reformation
name: reformation
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: target
symbol: TGT
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1764723823
name: target
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

[TITLE]Why India’s e-commerce giants are betting big on content commerce:
[TEXT]
Bengaluru: For online retailers such as Flipkart, Myntra, Amazon, and Nykaa, the old playbook of a broader selection of products and quicker delivery is no longer enough to draw shoppers. So they are increasingly looking to engage buyers through videos, livestreams and creator content in the hope that it will drive higher sales as growth slows.

Content commerce has become even more crucial for Flipkart and Meesho as they prepare to go public and face pressure to showcase their next big bets, according to analysts and industry experts.

Flipkart Group-owned fashion e-tailer Myntra now receives nearly 10% of its platform revenue from content commerce, with the contribution from the vertical surging 50% over the last four months alone, the company said in a statement in November. It now partners with 3.5 million creators, the majority of whom are Gen Z, to drive sales through shoppable affiliate links. Myntra aims to grow its creator base by 3x, while doubling its contribution to revenue through social commerce over the next 12-18 months.

Such content commerce partnerships with online retailers have turned into a goldmine for social media influencers, as their income has spiked, especially during the festival season, Mint reported earlier. But for companies like Flipkart and Amazon, it’s more than a marketing push.

India’s $125-billion online retail market has slowed with the combined sales of the top three e-commerce players — Amazon India, Flipkart, and Myntra — rising only
[Source link]: https://www.livemint.com/companies/flipkart-amazon-myntra-meesho-content-commerce-india-11764576387024.html


[TITLE]Amazon Buys Flex Property in SoCal for $79M:
[TEXT]
The world’s e-commerce king has acquired a flex industrial property in Southern California that could soon be pulled into the gravitational orbit of data center and digital infrastructure demand.

Amazon put down almost $78.8 million, or $469 per square foot, for a 168,000-square-foot property at 2964 Bradley Street in Pasadena. The deal is a 139 percent jump since the sellers, Alvarez & Marsal Capital Real Estate, acquired the property for $33 million
[Source link]: http://commercialobserver.com/2025/12/amazon-pasadena-california-tech-industrial-data/


[TITLE]Meesho IPO GMP: Smaller OFS To Trimmed Losses — What's Likely Behind Soaring Grey Market Estimates:
[TEXT]
Meesho Ltd. is set to launch its initial public offering on Wednesday, with the issue closing on Friday, according to the company’s red herring prospectus.

The IPO will include a mix of fresh issues of shares worth Rs 4,250 crore and an offer for sale of 10 crore shares by existing shareholders. The price band for the issue is set at Rs 105 to Rs 111 per share.

The IPO's last grey market premium is at Rs 46, as of 8:30 p.m. on Monday. With the price band of Rs 111, Meesh's IPO's estimated listing price is Rs 157, according to InvestorGain. The expected percentage gain per share is at 41.44%. This is also much higher than the 32.43% GMP gains that the IPO was trading with on Nov. 28.

Here are some of the possible reasons why retails investors are rushing to buy a slice of this story:
[Source link]: https://www.ndtvprofit.com/markets/initial-public-offering-meesho-ipo-gmp-offer-for-sale-ofs-soaring-grey-market-premium-reasons


[TITLE]Meesho, Aequs & Vidya Wires IPOs open this week. GMP indicates up to 35% listing gains:
[TEXT]
Live Events

Meesho IPO

Aequs Ltd IPO

Vidya Wires IPO

as a Reliable and Trusted News Source Addas a Reliable and Trusted News Source Add Now!

(You can now subscribe to our

(You can now subscribe to our ETMarkets WhatsApp channel

Investor sentiment appears upbeat in the grey market as three mainboard IPOs, Meesho, Aequs Limited, and Vidya Wires, gear up to open for subscription from December 3 to December 5.All three issues are commanding a notable grey market premium (GMP), which market watchers interpret as an early signal of possible listing-day enthusiasm. According to IPO tracking platforms, Meesho is commanding a GMP of Rs 39–40, Aequs is quoting at Rs 41–43, and Vidya Wires is hovering around Rs 9–10. These translate to indicative listing gains of approximately 17–35% over their respective upper price bands.Among them, Meesho and Aequs appear to be leading the GMP charts, with premiums exceeding 30% ahead of their issue opening. The strong demand in the unlisted market has been driven by multiple factors, including business model visibility, anchor investor interest, and robust growth expectations.Meanwhile, Vidya Wires is also attracting attention with a double-digit GMP, despite being the smallest issue in size. Here's a detailed look at all three upcoming IPOs Here are the details of these upcoming IPOs:SoftBank-backed e-commerce platform Meesho is set to launch its Rs 5,421-crore IPO with a price band of Rs 105–111 per share. The issue comprises a fresh equity component of Rs 4,250 crore and an offer-for-sale (OFS) of 10.55 crore shares by existing shareholders, including Elevation Capital V Ltd, Vidit Aatrey, Sanjeev Kumar, Peak XV Partners, and Venture Highway.The issue will open on December 3 and close on December 5, with the listing expected on December 10.Grey market activity suggests strong investor interest, with the stock quoting at a GMP of Rs 39–40, implying a potential listing price of around Rs 150–151, a premium of a little over 35%.Analysts have noted that Meesho has established a solid, defensible position in India’s value-driven e-commerce segment, backed by user engagement, scale, and improving unit economics.According to Perumal Raja K.J., Equity Research – Associate Director, FundsIndia: “With a 31% GMP and improving fundamentals, the company offers a medium-term growth opportunity for investors comfortable with early-stage platform risk.”Belagavi-based aerospace and consumer manufacturing firm Aequs Limited is coming out with a Rs 921.81-crore IPO in the price band of Rs 118–124 per share. The offer includes a fresh issue of 5.40 crore shares aggregating Rs 670 crore and an OFS of 2.03 crore shares worth Rs 251.81 crore.At the upper band, the issue size totals Rs 921.81 crore. Retail investors can bid for a minimum of 120 shares, which translates into an investment of Rs 14,880 at the upper end.As of the latest update, the grey market premium for Aequs has surged to Rs 41–43, up from 20% earlier, indicating potential listing around Rs 165–167, a premium of
[Source link]: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/ipos/fpos/meesho-aequs-vidya-wires-ipos-open-this-week-gmp-indicates-up-to-35-listing-gains/articleshow/125689634.cms


===== Company info for companies mentioned in news =====

Company name: aequs
name: aequs
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: amazon
symbol: AMZN
market_cap: None
pe: None
enterprise_value: None
ebitda: None
revenue: None
net_income: None
cap_bucket: None
as_of: 1764723825
name: amazon
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: flipkart
name: flipkart
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

Company name: meesho
name: meesho
symbol: None
note: no reliable listing found
------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

